{"title": "The Power of Glamour and transgender feelings", "date": "Sun, 10 Nov 2013 06:10:10 +0000", "dateobj": "2013-11-10", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2013/11/10/the-power-of-glamour-and-transgender-feelings/", "tags": ["Articles", "Feelings", "Glamour", "Good research", "Media", "Personal news"], "text": "Seven years ago I talked about the notion of glamour as described by Virginia Postrel.  Virginia has been working on a book about glamour, and it was published on Monday.  Here\u2019s the definition from the book (as of last year):  Glamour is not the same as beauty, stylishness, luxury, sex appeal, or celebrity. Glamour is, rather, a form of nonverbal rhetoric, which moves and persuades not through words but through images. Glamour takes our inchoate longings and focuses them. By binding image and desire, glamour gives us pleasure, even as it heightens our yearning. It makes us feel that the life we dream of exists, and to desire it even more. We recognize glamour by its emotional effect\u2014a sense of projection and longing\u2014and by the elements from which that effect arises: mystery, grace, and the promise of escape and transformation. The effect and the elements together define what glamour is. You can probably see why I was immediately struck by the connection to transgender feelings.  My strongest trans feeling is that longing to escape from my male reality, with its career obligations and social frustrations, where I\u2019m expected to go out and get what I want, into a dream world where all I have to do is put on the right clothes and everyone will pay attention to me, desire me, and give me what I want.  (Yeah, right!) To me, glamour explains the connection between gender dysphoria, my feeling of unhappiness with being a man, and gender desire, my desire to be a woman, to be seen as a woman.  There are lots of men who are unhappy being men, but only some of us want to be women.  Glamour helps us understand why we do. As Virginia has pointed out, this is compatible with the Official Trans Narrative: if you have an innate sense of gender that doesn\u2019t match your physical sex, then you\u2019re likely to be unhappy and thus feel a desire to escape your birth gender classification.  But for those of us not convinced by the innatist narrative, glamour opens the door to other explanations. Since then I\u2019ve followed Virginia on her blogs and on Twitter, and in June she mentioned that she visited my blog while checking footnotes.  On Monday night I had the pleasure of meeting her in person at the book launch party, and found that I\u2019m quoted on Page 63, connecting glamour with despair: I came to the idea of despair based on Virginia\u2019s characterization of glamour as a means of escape. If you\u2019re trying to escape through a fantasy you have to be pretty desperate, right? That\u2019s the sense of \u201cdespair\u201d that I mean \u2013 a feeling of being trapped and having no options left.  That\u2019s from a comment I left on an article Virginia wrote in 2008, expanding on the connection Salman Rushdie made between terror and glamour.  In the book, she expands on my connection to despair by noting the glamour elements highlighted in the documentary Paris Is Burning. The glamour response is powerful.  It can move us to approach strangers, to buy houses, and to blow up buses full of people.  It can also move us to cross-dress, to get surgery to change our bodies, and to declare gender transitions. What I\u2019ve read of the book so far has been great.  I encourage anyone who\u2019s interested in transgender feelings to get a copy.  I\u2019ll be posting more about it in the future.", "feedtitle": "Page 11 \u2013 Trans Blog"}