{"title": "Gender fog update", "date": "Wed, 25 Sep 2013 04:15:06 +0000", "dateobj": "2013-09-25", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2013/09/24/gender-fog-update/", "tags": ["Articles", "Feelings", "Gender fog", "Personal news"], "text": "It\u2019s really hard for me to write this post, because it\u2019s not my highlight reel. I worry that someone might read this and use it to undermine my credibility on issues that are not really related to it.  I worry that people might make incorrect assumptions about me based on this. Still, I think it\u2019s important to post this.  Not very many people are writing about gender fog.  But I\u2019ve talked to other people, and I know I\u2019m not the only one who feels it.  So here goes. As I wrote back in July, I went out in public as a woman and had some serious gender fog.  I actually had difficulty sleeping for two weeks.  I finally decided to go out cross-dressed again, and the night between making the decision and going out was the least restful of all.  After that I had one more difficult night, and then my insomnia returned to its baseline. I couldn't hold the phone steady for long enough to take a picture. That's how excited I was to go out for the second time this year.  I don't want to get that excited.Last Saturday I went out for the third time this year, and this time I only had trouble sleeping the night before. Since then, I\u2019ve been back to normal.  I don\u2019t know for sure why I had such a strong reaction back in July, but I have a few guesses. When I went out in July, it was the first time in two years, and that made it much more exciting.  In August and again this weekend, it had been a month or less.  It was still exciting, but not exciting enough to keep me up for several nights.  So that was a factor. I also got a lot of affirmation in July.  I spent the afternoon with one of my best friends, and he was really nice to me, even though he\u2019s going through a lot of his own issues.  He said I looked good, said he didn\u2019t know how anyone could have read me.  He picked out clothes for me to try on and gave me helpful feedback.  He asked thoughtful, sympathetic questions about my trans feelings and experiences.  I also dealt with security guards who were uniformly polite, friendly and gender-affirming.  I ran into a co-worker who said I looked great. The second time I went out this year, I made the mistake of riding Citibike in the heat.  My friend is out of town, so I went to regular middlebrow stores, where people didn\u2019t pay much attention to me, and probably less than normal because I was sweaty.  I had a nice conversation with the same co-worker, but it wasn\u2019t as exciting the second time. This past weekend, I got sirred by the woman in the dressing room at Burlington Coat Factory.  I had a nice time and got some fun clothes, and had a short conversation with my co-worker, but overall it wasn\u2019t that exciting.   The combination of novelty and affirmation was probably what made my gender fog so intense in July.  Since the intensity was unpleasant, I need to manage those and try not to get so much of both at the same time.  I\u2019m planning to make my outings a bit more frequent (every month or two) without doing anything too exciting.  I\u2019ll let you know how that goes.", "feedtitle": "Page 11 \u2013 Trans Blog"}