{"title": "Were you looking at the woman in the red dress?", "date": "Mon, 15 Jul 2013 06:55:36 +0000", "dateobj": "2013-07-15", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2013/07/15/were-you-looking-at-the-woman-in-the-red-dress/", "tags": ["Articles", "General News", "Glamour", "Media"], "text": "Film director Lana Wachowski, whom I associate most with the Matrix, has now declared her gender transition.  I didn\u2019t feel comfortable speculating when her transgender feelings were just a rumor, but now I can say that I see the Matrix as a deeply transgender movie.  Blogger Hannah DuVoix finds a number of trans themes in the movie, but dissociation and glamour are the two that make the biggest impression on me.  (There will be some spoilers here for those who haven\u2019t yet seen it.) The Matrix is dissociative.  Dissociation is a psychological term for a particular kind of disconnect from reality, at least as others experience that reality.  Dissociation can range from plain old field-independence to a deeply held belief that \u201cmy\u201d body is not my own.  One of its most extreme expressions is the dissociative fugue, where a person runs away and assumes a new identity, sometimes forgetting who they \u201creally\u201d are. I refuse to speak for all trans people, but my own trans feelings have always contained an element of dissociation, and I\u2019ve seen and heard it from others.  A lot of my trans fantasies have involved some disconnection from my body.  When I was younger I used to fantasize about moving to a different city and taking on a completely new identity for myself.  Many trans people have done this, including the story of Holly Woodlawn as Lou Reed tells it in \u201cTake a Walk on the Wild Side.\u201d In the Matrix, these dissociative fantasies are reality.  When Neo takes the red pill, his entire reality is revealed to be an illusion, and he discovers his real body and the sensations that go with it.  He is not just a programmer, \u201cMr. Anderson,\u201d in a dreary world.  He is something more, something where his \u201cunreal\u201d online identity is foregrounded.  The Matrix deals with glamour, and specifically the desire to own and control feminine glamour.  After Neo first disconnects from the Matrix, Morpheus takes him into a training program, a sandbox where he can demonstrate how the constructed world works.  He is distracted by \u201cthe woman in the red dress\u201d (played by Fiona Johnson), who walks by, smirking flirtatiously, and then turns into an evil Agent pointing a gun at Neo. When Neo leaves the training program, his new shipmate Mouse slyly confides that he created the woman in the red dress, and that she\u2019s available for other encounters.  It\u2019s not exactly a secret that many trans people obsess over the glamour of their target gender, trying to discover and replicate its secrets. In her speech to the Human Rights Campaign, Wachowski talks about spending hours trying on dresses in the wardrobe closet of her high school drama club.  I have similar memories, and when I saw the Matrix I had spent the previous year and a half working on my own animated virtual women, one of whom was sort of blonde (and neither of whom turned out anywhere near as sexy as the Woman in the Red Dress).  Like Mouse \u2013 and Wachowski \u2013 I had very good reasons for doing it, but those reasons don\u2019t preclude others. Again, I\u2019m not saying that all trans people are dissociative or obsessed with the glamour of their target gender, but these are themes we hear from lots of trans people.  I wasn\u2019t entirely surprised with the rumors and later revelations about Wachowski, because I had recognized a kindred spirit.", "feedtitle": "Page 13 \u2013 Trans Blog"}