All other things being equal
Sun, 29 Jan 2017 04:37:18 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2017/01/28/all-other-things-being-equal/
Actions Articles 
I’ve said many times before that I don’t believe in second-guessing anyone’s decision to transition.  But there are many trans people out there who are still figuring things out, and looking for advice.  This is for them, and for anyone who might be in a position of advising them. I wrote years ago that we can divide trans people into five groups.  One group would commit suicide if they didn’t transition, another would commit suicide if they did transition.  There are people who might not commit suicide if they didn’t transition, but they’d still be pretty miserable, and people who would be miserable if they did transition.  Then there are people who could make it work either way.  I would put myself in the “transition optional” group, and I’ve argued before that it’s probably the biggest group.  Note that this grouping is not meant to indicate some essential or immutable qualities.  They are states of mind, and people can and do shift from one state to another based on the circumstances in their lives. There’s something that I think needs to be said, and I don’t think I’ve ever said it before: If you don’t have to transition, it’s not a good idea to transition.  Medical procedures (hormones and surgery) will disrupt the functions of your body and leave it more vulnerable to biological and social challenges. Being visibly trans invites harassment and discrimination.  The process of transition can alienate friends and family.  These social factors may not be fair, but they are there. Some of you might be thinking, “well, yeah, that’s obvious,” but there are a surprising number of people who act as though transition is always a good idea.  Zinnia Jones famously created a site called “Should I Transition?” with one word on the page, “Yes,” indicating that if you’re asking the question then your destiny is to transition.  For people like this there are no possible downsides and no false positives.  And if any of them have read this far, they’ve probably marked me down already as an Enemy of Trans People for suggesting it. So let me put my position out there: Should you transition? Only if you would be miserable otherwise.
Page 2 – Trans Blog