{"title": "Bad Stat of the Month: HIV infection", "date": "Mon, 29 Apr 2013 05:22:03 +0000", "dateobj": "2013-04-29", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2013/04/29/bad-stat-of-the-month-hiv-infection/", "tags": ["Articles", "Bad stats"], "text": "AIDS is a horrible disease.  My family has lost at least one dear friend to it, and the world has lost millions of loving, creative people.  It also affects a significant number of transgender people around the world.  AIDS needs to stop, and I\u2019m heartened by recent news of medical advances that help people to live full lives with HIV infections, and even suggest the possibility of a cure. In order to stop the spread of AIDS and help save the lives of people infected with HIV, we need to know what\u2019s going on.  We need the best information possible, and we need to avoid overreaching and making unjustified assumptions.  That\u2019s why I\u2019m frustrated by April\u2019s Bad Stat of the Month: Worldwide burden of HIV in transgender women by Stefan Baral, Tonia Poteat, Susanne Str\u00f6mdahl, Andrea Wirtz, Thomas Guadamuz and Chris Beyrer at Johns Hopkins, the Karolinksa Institutet and the University of Pittsburgh. As I said with the inaugural Bad Stat of the Month, I\u2019m not happy to be doing this.  I\u2019m sure that Baral and his associates are all caring professionals who really want to make a difference in the fight against AIDS.  I believe that they also want to help transgender people, and they think they\u2019re doing that by spreading these figures.  I hope that this post will convince them that this strategy does more harm than good, and that they should concentrate their efforts elsewhere. So here\u2019s the headline that came blazing across my feed reader earlier this month: Transgender Women 49 Times More Likely To Have HIV, Study Says. \u201cIt doesn\u2019t seem like it\u2019s been a priority for global funding entities to care about the needs of transgender communities,\u201d Baral told the Huffington Post\u2019s Meredith Bennett-Smith.  Bennett-Smith continues, \u201cGoing forward, Baral said he hopes health care providers and advocates will improve the way they target transgender populations and tailor treatment systems and support networks.\u201d Fair enough.  I want global funding entities to improve the way they target transgender populations, because much as I want them to care about my needs, as a middle-class HIV-negative white American I don\u2019t need their funding.  What I\u2019m afraid of is that the research of Baral and his associates will obscure that fact and other important patterns in the data, making it more difficult for them to target populations, exactly the opposite of their intentions. How does this study obscure these patterns in the data?  There are multiple ways, and I could probably write a post a day for a month.  Tonight I\u2019m going to focus on one specific weakness in the methdology, that I\u2019ve discussed many times before.  Baral and his colleagues pooled data from 39 studies across fifteen countries.  I\u2019ve looked at a few of these studies, and they all use non-representative samples.  It is well known that a non-representative sample cannot be reliably generalized to the population at large, and many of these studies warn against such overgeneralizations.  Baral and his co-authors simply ignored these warnings, stating in their summary, \u201cOur findings suggest that transgender women are a very high burden population for HIV and are in urgent need of prevention, treatment, and care services.\u201d For example, one of the studies that Baral et al. used was a study by Kristen Clements-Nolle, Rani Marx, Robert Guzman and Mitchell Katz of the San Francisco Department of Public Health, who write, \u201cThe primary limitation of our research was the use of non-probability sampling. Our findings may not generalize to other urban areas, and there may be threats to internal validity if certain sampling methods were more likely to recruit high-risk individuals. Most traditional random sampling approaches would not produce reliable samples, however, because the transgender population has strong privacy concerns and has never been counted, and because many transgender persons are marginally housed or homeless.\u201d Despite this warning, Baral et al. went right ahead and generalized Clements-Nolle et al\u2019s results, not only to other urban areas, but to the entire United States, and with a certain weighting, to the world. As I said, there are more problems with the meta-study, but I\u2019ll have to save those for later posts.  I\u2019ll also talk about the implications of these problems for trans people and people at risk for HIV.", "feedtitle": "Page 13 \u2013 Trans Blog"}