{"title": "Blacklisted!", "date": "Sat, 26 Nov 2016 05:37:25 +0000", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2016/11/26/blacklisted/", "tags": ["Articles", "Bad stats", "Blog news", "Categorization", "Media", "Personal news"], "text": "I\u2019ve been writing this blog since 2006, and for a while it seemed that my readership was growing steadily.  I joined Twitter in 2009, and Tumblr in 2013, and later that year I made a separate Twitter account for personal and political tweets.  I saw people retweeting and reblogging my work.  But at a certain point the number of retweets, reblogs, mentions and comments that my posts got abruptly dropped.  Since then most of the responses I get are from regular readers or Facebook friends. This is not entirely a bad thing.  I know that a lot of what I write is controversial, and some transitioners even find it offensive.  I\u2019ve had a couple of unpleasant experiences, on Reddit and on Facebook, with people sharing my work with a hostile audience, and it is not necessarily valuable.  I don\u2019t really want to reach people who have closed their minds to my ideas, whose only response will be unthinking hate, and who will use the opportunity to find ways to dismiss my arguments. The main reason I write is simply because I have ideas, thoughts, words in me that want to get out.  I read things that other people write, and if I don\u2019t write down my own thoughts in response, I tend to get more confused about the issues and forget my earlier thoughts. But I also write for others, for trans people who are deciding whether to transition, for trans people who have decided not to transition and can hopefully benefit from my experience, and from various kinds of allies.  I want to continue to reach them. What\u2019s frustrating is that it could be due to people simply not appreciating my writing anymore.  I find myself wondering whether I\u2019ve gotten so out of touch with other trans people that nobody agrees with me at all.  Or possibly worse, that what I say is complete gibberish to them. I\u2019ve occasionally read things about a Twitter blacklist, a plugin that will load a centrally maintained list of Bad People and filter their tweets out. Now, I believe in blocking people; there are too many trolls out there.  But blocking should always be done on a case by case basis.  Group blacklists are a huge abuse of power. It crossed my mind that I might have been put on some blacklist.  This is a good place to point out that I have not done any of the things that are normally invoked to justify keeping a blacklist.  I have never harassed or stalked anyone.  I have never threatened anyone with discrimination, much less violence.  I haven\u2019t called anyone slurs based on race, gender, religion, sexuality or anything else.  The worst things I\u2019ve said to anybody are probably \u201cfuck you\u201d and \u201cyou\u2019re an asshole\u201d in the midst of heated arguments.  If that\u2019s what it takes to be on that blacklist I\u2019d expect half the world to be on there. I got some confirmation for my suspicions last year, when the LaLa Zannell, a staffer at the Antiviolence Project retweeted the claim that \u201cStonewall was started by trans women.\u201d  The claim bothers me because it is invariably used to foreground transition track trans women, excluding the trans women at Stonewall who chose not to transition.  The word \u201ctrans women\u201d didn\u2019t exist then; they all called themselves queens or transvestites, regardless of their transition status. I tried to engage with the people repeating that claim on Twitter, and at first I was engaged, if with suspicious contempt. But then all of a sudden LaLa Zanell retweeted a tweet from an anonymous account, responding to another, private anonymous account, claiming that I had \u201cpriors,\u201d so that it was okay to block me. Again, note that I did not attack or threaten anyone or any group.  Zannell and friends were challenging a historical account of Stonewall, and offering an alternative.  I was doing exactly the same thing. That was clear evidence of my name on some blacklist that could be used by people to decide whether to block me.  I suspected I was also on an informal blacklist, but I had no evidence until a few months ago I came across a tweet shared by a fellow linguist and trans woman who follows me on Twitter.  The author of this post, also a trans woman, talked about using these group blacklists in the past and renouncing the practice:  These lists are incredibly incredibly powerful, and for marginalized people like trans women sometimes the only community they have is here. \u2014 Mask of Dionysus (@ZoeyAWolfe) May 4, 2016  I saw this tweet from my professional Twitter feed, where I mostly talk about linguistics and try to keep political tweets to a minimum.  I logged in to my personal account and discovered that I was indeed blocked by the author of that blog post.  I tweeted this information to her from my professional account, and she happily removed the block. Neither of us remembered having any interaction with the other, so it is clear that I am indeed on an automatic blacklist. What is most disturbing about these blacklists is that there is no due process, no opportunity for redress, and not even any notification to people who are placed on one.  Even the people who use these blacklists are never told anything about me.  One day I am visible to them, the next I am gone. Even the informal blacklist that Zannell and friends used was a complete mystery to me.  The tweet she retweeted came from an anonymous account that blocked me.  The evidence of \u201cpriors\u201d it referred to was from another anonymous account whose tweets were private.  There was no way for me to see the evidence against me, and no opportunity to respond or refute it. It is perfectly fine for individuals to block anyone they don\u2019t want to interact with.  It is also appropriate for Twitter or even organized groups to block or ban repeat offenders, with due process, transparency and accountability. It is much worse to have hidden blacklists maintained by anonymous administrators, with no procedures for recourse or accountability.  And it is even worse to have such hidden blacklists applied automatically, with the user being unaware of the people they have blocked. It is a recipe for disappearing people that a totalitarian dictator would be proud of. What I find most disturbing is that LaLa Zanell worked for the Antiviolence Project at the time.  Zannell may have been junior staff member at the time, but when I alerted the organization about this activity there was no response.   This lack of interest, and the fact that Zannell has been promoted twice since then leads me to wonder whether AVP as an organization would ever adopt a blacklist. Would there come a time when I could be beaten up, and try to contact AVP to report it, only to be ignored?  I hope not.  I\u2019d like to get some reassurance from them. I wrote most of this post a few weeks ago, but I\u2019ve been avoiding finishing it until tonight, because it was painful just re-reading the nasty tweets from Zannell and her anonymous friends, and even more painful being reminded that there are thousands of people out there who won\u2019t even get a chance to read a little of what I write, so they can decided for themselves whether to read more or not. What moved me to finish the post and click \u201cPublish\u201d was the recent controversy over fake news in the US election.  I\u2019ve had a lot of thoughts about the election and about the fake news, but I haven\u2019t posted anything because I haven\u2019t had any answers.  Tonight another fellow linguist and data scientist posted a dataset of \u201cfake news\u201d gathered from websites flagged by Daniel Sieradski\u2019s \u201cBS Detector\u201d software, which relies on a list of domains that \u201cwas somewhat indiscriminately compiled from various sources around the web.\u201d At this point I don\u2019t think I need to spell out for you why I think Sieradski\u2019s methods are a bad idea.  Yes, I understand why group blacklists are tempting.  But they don\u2019t work, and they are open to serious abuse.  I\u2019ve spent my life supporting independent media organizations, going back to when I used data science to fight Rush Limbaugh\u2019s misinformation in 1995.  I don\u2019t want to see small media providers snuffed out because \u201cthis blacklist is better than nothing.\u201d  It\u2019s not.  I\u2019m serious.", "feedtitle": "Page 2 \u2013 Trans Blog"}