Whose Dead? Whose Day?
Sun, 26 Nov 2006 03:53:47 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2006/11/26/whose-dead-whose-day/
Articles Media Violence 
The subject of unity and the Transgender Day of Remembrance leads me to an unpleasant issue.  Helen Boyd had a relatively innocuous post about the Day, and then a transwoman named Arlene Starr attacked her for presuming to use the phrase “our dead.”  You see, Helen is not trans herself (although she has described having transgender feelings), she’s “only” married to a transwoman.  Kind of the way I’m “just a cross-dresser.” The problem is, God forbid I’m ever killed, who would suffer the most?  My wife, my son and the rest of my family.  Who worries the most about me getting attacked?  My wife and my mother.  The same is true, by and large, for Helen’s husband Betty.  Think about Sylvia Guerrero (PDF), mother of Gwen Araujo, and Jennie Heskin, mother of Krystal Heskin. Think, also, about the impact that spouses and mothers have had on public policy when their children’s lives are at stake.  No one wants to be against motherhood, and very few people want to be seen as coming between a mother and her children.  (The less said the better about those who are against marriage for transpeople, or who would come between a transperson and their partner.)   I’m very proud that my own mother has been active in this area, and I think it’s made a difference.  Our loved ones are natural allies in this. Most importantly, as Marlena Dahlstrom wrote in the comments on Starr’s blog, partners and other loved ones can be targets too.  Private first class Barry Winchell was brutally murdered in 1999 for dating a transwoman, Calpernia Addams, who has since become a nationwide community leader. (Interestingly, as the article I linked discusses, people downplayed Addams’s identification as a woman and Winchell’s identification as heterosexual in order to construe his murder as a gay murder and fit it into a wider debate about gays in the military.  While it is certainly related to those issues, it is not the same.  I think this raises similar issues about claiming the dead and demanding reforms based on them as I mentioned in my last post.)
Page 20 – Trans Blog