Owning Jessica Hambrook
Sun, 25 Sep 2016 05:29:53 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2016/09/25/owning-jessica-hambrook/
Articles Bathrooms Categorization Media Respectability politics 
In the wake of the Alliance Defending Freedom-sponsored bathroom bills being considered in many states, and passed in North Carolina, many people responded that there have been no documented cases of trans people assaulting women in bathrooms.  I may well have been the first to point out, a decade ago, the conspicuous lack of news reports of any such assaults. It’s important to be clear about what this fact means.  It means that a tiny minority of rapes happen in bathrooms, trans women are a tiny minority of the population, and a tiny minority of us are rapists.  A tiny minority of a tiny minority of a tiny minority means that there’s so little chance of this happening that it might as well be zero. Here’s what this does not mean: that trans women can never be rapists.  It does not mean that none of us has ever raped anyone.  It just unlikely, especially in a public bathroom.  There are a lot of other things to be worried about, like getting hit by a car on your way to the public bathroom. We need to be clear on this point because there is always a chance that at some point, someone will get raped in a bathroom by a trans woman.  In fact, there is a group of radical feminists who collect and circulate news reports of trans people harassing and attacking women and girls. These lists are not a systematic investigation of these issues, and they do not constitute a sound argument for banning trans people from women’s bathrooms.  The argument rests on exactly the same profiling fallacy currently being promoted by Donald Trump, Jr.  But the incidents are well-documented, and if we ignore them or dismiss them out of hand, we look like liars. In February 2012 a trans woman, Jessica Hambrook, was arrested based on reports that she sexually assaulted two women in two different homeless shelters in Toronto.  Psychiatrists, no doubt working in the sloppy theories of Ray Blanchard, “concluded Hambrook is not transgender.”  The Toronto Sun reported in February 2014 that she was locked up for life as a “dangerous offender,” based on guilty pleas in these cases and convictions in two previous ones.  They apparently considered themselves freed by the psychiatrist’s judgment from the responsibility to treat her with any dignity, and consistently referred to her with a male name and pronouns.  They printed a brief statement from the defense attorney admitting Hambrook’s crimes, but not addressing the question of her transgender status. When challenged on the Hambrook case, trans activist Toni D’Orsay simply took the word of the psychiatrists that Hambrook “falsely claimed” to be trans.  The rest of our “trans community leaders,” normally eager to defend one of their own and insist on the “correct” name and pronouns, has been silent on this issue, apparently unwilling to risk even the possibility that she is just as trans as they are, and might therefore taint all trans people with her crimes. This is bullshit – and it’s exactly the No True Scotsman fallacy.  Every population includes some people who are mentally ill, people who are sexual predators, and people who are criminals.  It is preposterous to think that trans people are somehow immune to this.  If this convicted serial rapist Jessica Hambrook is not “really trans,” there is a rapist somewhere who is.  We discredit ourselves by ignoring this certainty, and the radical feminists are simply attacking us with the weapons we have handed them.
Page 3 – Trans Blog