Keeping your footing on the Slippery Slope
Sun, 04 Sep 2016 03:14:06 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2016/09/03/keeping-your-footing-on-the-slippery-slope/
Actions Articles The Slippery Slope 
This is the eighth and final in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don’t want to.  I’ve focused on people who grew up as boys and feel a desire to be women, but I hope that some of what I wrote is helpful for people who grew up as girls and feel a desire to be men or nonbinary.  You can read the first installment here.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. Here, as promised, are a few strategies that I have developed over the years to keep myself relatively stable.  I can’t say they’ve worked completely for me: I’m further down the slope than I’d like to be.  I can’t promise they’ll work for you, but I hope some of you will find them useful.  Don’t repress yourself.  You’ll just resent it, and then wind up rebelling.  Only take the following steps if you agree with the reasoning behind them.  Do not deny yourself feminine expression without a good reason – like the following reasons. Invest in your masculine identity.  This is who you chose to be for the rest of your life.  You might as well get comfortable.  When you think about the future, make sure you spend most of your time thinking about your future as a man. Don’t invest too much in your feminine identity.  If you’re serious about not becoming a woman, don’t act like you’re planning to be one.  Don’t spend too much money or time or energy on your life as a woman, because you’ve already decided that it’s a dead end.  Don’t get in the habit of doing things that you can only do as a woman, or make friends who only know you as a woman. Spread out your significant gender events.  This may well be the most important strategy.  In my experience, the excitement of anticipation can last for up to a week before the event, and the gratification phase can last for up to two weeks after.  That’s three weeks of gender fog.  I tried scheduling my events at least a month apart, but that left only one week out of four that I wasn’t in some kind of fog.  I’ve changed it to six weeks minimum, and that feels much better.
Page 3 – Trans Blog