{"title": "Degrees of sexuality", "date": "Sun, 14 Aug 2016 18:30:09 +0000", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2016/08/14/degrees-of-sexuality/", "tags": ["Actions", "Articles", "Feelings", "Sexuality"], "text": "Every kind of sexuality exists on a continuum of intensity.  Partnered straight sex does not go immediately from sexless formality to orgasm, and neither does gay or lesbian sex.  In between there is fantasy, provocation, flirting, dating, touching, kissing and foreplay. The progression is not necessarily linear or inevitable.  People may feel conflicted or ambivalent, or simply not have a clear idea of what they want.  They may change their minds, or feel differently when circumstances change.  Fantasies go unfulfilled.  People flirt and nothing comes of it.  They kiss and don\u2019t call.  They have sex but want to go back to flirting. There is also ambiguity and formality in sexuality.  People go through the motions to please a partner.  They kiss because they\u2019re lonely.  They fool around even if they don\u2019t feel like it, because they got all dressed up and don\u2019t want that effort to go to waste.  They wear revealing clothing to feel admired or to be cool on a hot day, or because their other nice shirt was in the wash, or because it\u2019s part of the dress code, official or unofficial. If you read some writings all the nuances go out of the window.  In these portrayals there is a linear progression from provocative dressing to flirting to kissing to foreplay to intercourse.  People either want intercourse or they don\u2019t, and their feelings never change.  If they want it everything else is simply a series of hoops to jump through on the way. There are two kinds of discourse that erase all the nuances.  The first is erotica, because all that stuff about ambiguity and ambivalence can be a huge turn-off.  We want a little bit of a story, but not so much it distracts us.  We also want to be flattered, and too much nuance can muddy the picture. People also ignore these nuances when disapproving of other people\u2019s sexuality. It\u2019s okay for Us to affirm our sexuality with all its nonlinearity, ambivalence, ambiguity and formality, but the Others, whether they be gay men or lesbians, straight unmarried couples, straight masturbators or BDSM fetishists, are not allowed this level of humanity.  They are single-minded sex maniacs, monsters prepared to put their gratification before all else. I can testify to this from experience.  When I was a teenager I read and heard things about gay men that made me think of their sexuality as single-strength, either on or off, and I judged them accordingly.  As I grew up and my gay male friends came out to me, I saw the humanity of their sexual feelings and stopped judging.  (I also stopped judging other people in general, which was one of the best decisions I\u2019ve ever made.) This isn\u2019t to say that there aren\u2019t sexualities that come with their own problems.  When people feel desire for children, or nonhuman animals, or people that they have power over, there is a real danger of abuse.  When people get obsessed with objects, or objectify other people or their body parts, that presents a barrier to the formation of true relationships.  When sexuality is connected to violence, there is the danger of that violence getting out of hand.  But we can\u2019t simply say that everything and everyone associated with these problematic sexualities is automatically bad, or even criminal.  We need to treat them realistically, acknowledging their complexities and finding solutions to the problems they pose. I\u2019m also not saying there aren\u2019t bad actors out there.  There absolutely are, but they\u2019re represented in all sexualities, and they\u2019re a minority of all sexualities.  We need to keep this in mind, and remember that everyone deserves safety and compassion.", "feedtitle": "Page 3 \u2013 Trans Blog"}