{"title": "The Slippery Slope: Neglecting the masculine identity", "date": "Sun, 24 Jul 2016 17:56:12 +0000", "dateobj": "2016-07-24", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2016/07/24/the-slippery-slope-neglecting-the-masculine-identity/", "tags": ["Actions", "Articles", "The Slippery Slope"], "text": "This is the seventh in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don\u2019t want to.  You can read the first installment here.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. Alongside all time, energy, money and focus that we invest in our feminine identities, appearances and activities, we often neglect of our masculine selves.  We may not have felt excited about living as a man, let alone comfortable with it, for years to begin with. Most of us don\u2019t have the money to support two people, on top of whatever family commitments we have, or the time and energy to live two separate lives.  What we spend on our feminine selves is money, time and energy we don\u2019t have for our masculine selves. In terms of personality, the skills we learn and the habits we develop as women can be hard to transfer to our lives as men.  Relationships that we develop as women may not carry over to our masculine selves. At some point on the slope, some trans women decide that transition is the best course of action for them.  Even if they had previously decided to live as aman, they may conclude at this point that it was the wrong decision.  They may well be right, but that does not mean they were wrong in their previous decisions not to transition.  What has happened is that they have changed from someone who was probably better off not transitioning to someone who was probably better off transitioning. It was the slippery slope, the dysphoria ratchet, that changed each of them over time.  Each significant gender event grew and developed the habits, the thought patterns, the relationships that formed her feminine identity.  As this new identity has been growing, the sunk costs have been mounting and she has been neglecting to make similar investments in the masculine identity that she had chosen to remain with. When the feminine identity is so small and undeveloped compared to the masculine identity, it is easy to reject or defer transition.  But if it gets to the point where the feminine identity is better developed, transition can seem more feasible.  If someone has spent a day or more as a woman, it is easier to imagine spending the rest of her life as a woman. Once a trans woman gets to the point where her female identity is well-developed, she may still choose not to transition.  But sometimes circumstances arise that can make her reconsider.  I have known, and known of, several trans women who chose to transition during a divorce or midlife crisis, or after losing a job, moving to a new place, or the death of a loved one.  When it feels like everything in our life is changing, why not gender too? Here, gender fog plays a role again.  Some trans women make a calm, rational decision to transition, but many decide to transition when their judgment is impaired by the excitement brought on by a significant gender event.  These events can also increase dysphoria, making the case for transition feel stronger and more urgent. This concludes the seventh installment of the Slippery Slope. You can read the next installment, or read on in the full article.", "feedtitle": "Page 3 \u2013 Trans Blog"}