{"title": "Dysphoria, gender fog and significant events", "date": "Mon, 18 Apr 2016 04:05:59 +0000", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2016/04/17/dysphoria-gender-fog-and-significant-events/", "tags": ["Actions", "Articles", "Feelings", "Gender fog", "The Slippery Slope"], "text": "This is the fifth in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don\u2019t want to.  You can read the first installment here.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. In my observation, when a trans woman experiences one of the significant gender events I discussed in the last part, it can bring up a lot of feelings.  This can have a major impact on our gender dysphoria: each significant gender event produces strong feelings of anticipation, gratification and disappointment.  Each of these feelings by itself can produce peaks of dysphoria, and they are accompanied by an intense focus on the event that increases the baseline of dysphoria for that period. These events can be so significant that we get excited.  Very excited, as in unable to sleep for nights beforehand.  We can spend a lot of time thinking about the event: what to wear, where to go, what precautions to take.  We can feel frustrations with make-up, clothing, padding, wigs.  We can feel impatient with the lead time, and want to get it over with so that the event can start.  These frustrations, this impatience, feeds gender dysphoria. The events themselves can sometimes be disappointing.  The disappointment can come from interactions with other people, who may treat us like men, disrespect us, discriminate against us, harass us or even attack us \u2013 or simply not find us attractive.  Or it can come from not liking what we see in the mirror or a photograph, or how our clothes fit.  These disappointments feed dysphoria. The events can be gratifying: we can have our femininity, our status as women, our attractiveness confirmed.  We can simply have a good time.  But even that gratification can feed dysphoria, because we often want more.  If we have success, we want to build on that success.  The event can be a high, and then we can experience withdrawal afterwards. Whatever happens before, during and after the significant gender event, we spend a large part of that time focused on the event, thinking about what will happen, what is happening, what has happened.  Just the fact of thinking so much about gender and about our own gender presentation can increase the chance that we will feel dysphoria. Finally, this intense focus on the event can impair our judgment.  This is widely recognized by trans people, and I call it \u201cgender fog.\u201d  When we are in the gender fog, we often make decisions that we would not have made at other times, decisions that we sometimes regret later. This state of intense focus can begin up to a week before the significant gender event, and last for up to two weeks afterwards.  This means that for just one event we can spend as much as three weeks focused on gender expression, increasing our dysphoria, and with potentially impaired judgment.  If we have these significant gender events less than three weeks apart, we may be constantly in this gender fog. This concludes the fifth installment of the Slippery Slope. You can read the next installment, or read on in the full article.", "feedtitle": "Page 3 \u2013 Trans Blog"}