The Slippery Slope and the desire for progress
Thu, 24 Mar 2016 05:28:25 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2016/03/24/the-slippery-slope-and-the-desire-for-progress/
Actions Articles The Slippery Slope 
This is the fourth in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don’t want to.  You can read the first installment here.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. A major factor in the ratchet mechanism is a desire for some kind of progress in our gender expression.  Some trans women have a routine that they repeat over and over again in exactly the same way for years, but many of us like progress.  Doing the same thing over and over again can get boring.  Like the model train collector who is always buying new pieces of equipment, or the singer who is always learning new songs, we like to achieve things.  What counts as an achievement is entirely personal, and specific to the circumstances at the time.  Sometimes it’s a new purchase, like clothing, shoes, makeup, wigs or padding.  For those further down the slippery slope it can be a new body modification.  It can also be a milestone in the development of a skill, or a social event like a support group, party or date.  These significant gender events are the most difficult part of navigating the slippery slope.  Without them we can feel like we’re denying and repressing ourselves, which can lead to resentment and rebellion.  But each significant gender event contributes to building the feminine identity.  It also comes with a temporary increase in dysphoria, and often with the short-term impaired decision making known as the “pink fog.”  The investment in our feminine identity and the increased dysphoria can in turn increase the desire for more frequent transgender expression. This concludes the fourth installment of the Slippery Slope. You can read the next installment, or read on in the full article.  On this topic, you can also read “Sunk costs and the non-transitioner” and “A Sundress for Sisyphus.”
Page 4 – Trans Blog