{"title": "The mechanism behind the slippery slope", "date": "Thu, 11 Feb 2016 01:41:29 +0000", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2016/02/10/the-mechanism-behind-the-slippery-slope/", "tags": ["Actions", "Articles", "Categorization", "The Slippery Slope"], "text": "This is the second in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don\u2019t want to.  You can read the first installment here.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. So how does the slippery slope work, and why do we have such difficulty steering a course between transition and repression?  In my observation there are three interacting parts: feelings, actions and identity.  They are correlated: at the top of the slope the transgender actions are minimal (for example, just wearing an article or two of women\u2019s clothing), the trans woman doesn\u2019t really have a well-developed feminine identity, and any feelings of gender dysphoria or transgender desire are mild.  At the bottom of the slope, right before deciding to transition, the trans woman may have already begun irreversible body modifications (hormones or surgery), spends a lot of time interacting with others as a woman, and regularly feels intense dysphoria when she isn\u2019t presenting as a woman. Many people interpret this correlation as causation, that the gender expression and/or identity development cause the dysphoria.  They conclude that this middle way is doomed, and the only true options are repression or transition.  I myself have believed this at times, but I\u2019ve come to realize that it\u2019s not as simple as that.  There is causation, but it\u2019s complex. What happens is that a trans woman\u2019s feelings, actions and identity all work together in a ratchet mechanism.  There is a normal ebb and flow to gender dysphoria.  It is never constant, but rather rises and falls in response to various factors in the environment.  Every trans person has it, and many non-trans people have it.  As far as I know it never goes away, even if we transition.  When we decide not to transition, it\u2019s usually because the fluctuations are within our tolerance range, and we expect them to remain there.  When we decide to transition it\u2019s usually because the dysphoria has gotten so extreme that we don\u2019t think we can handle it. In the ratchet mechanism, each action of gender expression leads to further investment of time, money, effort and even our own bodies in that gender expression, further development of our feminine identity and a corresponding neglect of our masculine identity.  These in turn increase the desire for more frequent and more in-depth transgender expression.  Eventually our feminine identities approach the scale of our masculine identities in size and complexity. At some point we encounter a crisis.  It could be related to gender dysphoria, but it doesn\u2019t have to be.  During that crisis we realize that we can no longer sustain two strong identities.  If the crisis comes during a significant gender event, or if we have a significant gender event during the crisis, we also may be experiencing a peak in gender dysphoria, and our decision-making ability may be impaired by the intense focus on gender known as the \u201cpink cloud\u201d or \u201cgender fog.\u201d  These factors can tip the scales in favor of transition. So why do any feminine gender expression at all?  As I said above, if we repress our feelings we wind up resenting that, and eventually rebelling.  The single most effective way I have found of heading off that repression is being out of the closet, and having people I can trust to talk to about these feelings.  But for many of us talking is not enough, and the next most important way is expressing ourselves as women, whether alone, in small private groups, or in public. This concludes the second installment of the Slippery Slope. You can read the next installment, or read on in the full article.", "feedtitle": "Page 4 \u2013 Trans Blog"}