{"title": "We need support to be men", "date": "Thu, 24 Dec 2015 05:25:13 +0000", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2015/12/24/we-need-support-to-be-men/", "tags": ["Actions", "Allies", "Articles", "Categorization", "Media", "Patriarchy"], "text": "The author, big hairy scary man This month there has been a lot of talk about support for alternatives to transition.  In Slate, Michelle Goldberg wrote about a group of \u201cgender-critical trans women,\u201d including several who identify as transgender or transsexual.  In a reaction to the shutdown of the CAMH clinic, Alice Dreger talked about people who were gender non-conforming children and didn\u2019t transition, linking to a book called Blood and Visions, a post by Debra Soh and an interview with Sarah Hoffman.  Maria Catt wrote about her experiences taking and dispensing testosterone to female-bodied people.  Joel Nowak hoisted a great comment by Juniper asking, \u201cWhere are the examples of (so many) people who have lived long and well WITHOUT surgeries or hormones?\u201d 4th Wave Now expanded on Juniper\u2019s post, highlighting the value of alternatives to transition in reducing the incidence of trans suicides. We do need to hear more from examples of people who have successfully coped with gender dsyphoria without transitioning.  So, let\u2019s take a look at who\u2019s represented in these articles:  Women who don\u2019t suffer from chronic gender dysphoria (Goldberg, Dreger, Hoffman and 4th Wave Now) Women who have dealt with dysphoria without transitioning (Soh and Juniper) People raised as girls who transitioned to living as men, then detransitioned (Catt and the authors of Blood and Visions) People raised as boys who transitioned to living as women, but are critical of transgender dogma and identify as male (the women interviewed by Goldberg) People raised as boys who transitioned to living as women, then detransitioned (Joel and the author of Third Way Trans)  These are all important stories, important voices.  But there\u2019s a population missing: men who have dealt with dysphoria without transitioning.  If people like Joel and Juniper are virtually invisible, people like me are actually invisible. And yet our stories are hugely important.  Most of the people I\u2019ve mentioned have complained about transgender dogma, particularly as articulated by transitioned trans women, and particularly about the demands made by transitioned trans women for unconditional access to women\u2019s spaces.  Many have complained about the behavior of individual transitioned trans women, online and in person. It\u2019s very nice for transitioned trans women to be accepted (by some) as feminists.  It\u2019s absolutely essential for detransitioned trans women to be heard.  But if what we\u2019re looking for are alternatives to transition, we need to make space for people raised male to talk about how we deal with gender dysphoria without transitioning.  And people need to listen to us, not just talk at us. I\u2019ve been blogging about this stuff for years, and for some reason I\u2019m not mentioned by Goldberg or Dreger or Catt or Joel.  I had some conversations with detransitioned trans men on Tumblr a few years ago, and they got very angry.  I tried talking to the gender-critical trans women on Tumblr, and they ignored me.  I tried to talk to Joel about this on Twitter, but he cut me off.  I simply posted about my gender-related feelings on my own blog, and gender-critical feminists mocked me on their blog. I don\u2019t think it\u2019s me, but let\u2019s assume that it is.  Let\u2019s assume that I somehow came off as a huge asshole.  Why am I the only one blogging about this stuff?  Why haven\u2019t Goldberg or Dreger, who are journalists, gone and found some male-bodied people who have dealt with gender dysphoria without transitioning? I have a simple theory about this.  It\u2019s one thing to deal with women, even gender non-conforming women and detransitioned trans men.  Boys are pretty safe, especially \u201cpink boys.\u201d  If you\u2019re willing to be flexible, transitioned and even detransitioned trans women can be seen as womanly enough.  They\u2019ve had hair removal and lots of female socialization.  But it\u2019s another thing to deal with men.  Big strong hairy muscular men with deep voices, talking about sports or gadgets or hunting, some of us in dresses. Third Wave Trans has written one of the wisest things I\u2019ve read about this: many people, including me, have been traumatized by men in their lives.  I\u2019ve largely gotten over my trauma, but lots of people have a hard time trusting men.  Some have a hard time even being in the same room with men. I get this.  I\u2019m not asking anyone to go beyond their comfort zone.  If some people are unable to relate to men without being mistrustful or hostile \u2013 or at all \u2013 I\u2019m not going to demand that they do. But someone needs to talk to us.  Someone needs to listen to us.  Someone needs to help us to be out and proud.  Someone needs to tell the young trans women out there that they can be happy without transitioning.  Joel accused me of demanding \u201cpoliteness.\u201d  I am not.  I am also not trying to impose patriarchy or mansplain or dominate any discussions.  To paraphrase the immortal words of stimmyabby, I\u2019m not demanding anyone treat me as an authority, only as a person.  I think it\u2019s reasonable to ask people not to use us as insults to mock transitioned trans women.  If you\u2019re going to make pronouncements about what we should and shouldn\u2019t do, you could at least ask us if we think that would work. I am not writing this to criticize people for what they\u2019ve written in the past, only voicing a plea for what they will write in the future.  The bottom line is that if we don\u2019t want all the trans women thinking they have to transition, or commit suicide, we have to make it safe for trans women to be men.", "feedtitle": "Page 4 \u2013 Trans Blog"}