Selections from the Facebook chats of Myra Breckenridge
Tue, 09 Jun 2015 06:59:19 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2015/06/09/selections-from-the-facebook-chats-of-myra-breckenridge/
Actions Articles Fiction 
Mike Silver: Yo Myron!  Wow, dude, I had no idea. Myra Breckenridge: I’m not Myron. Mike Silver: Sorry, man, I get it.  Myra.  You look way hotter than you did as Myron. Myra Breckenridge: I never was Myron.  Who’s Myron? Mike Silver: Whoa, sorry, bear with me.  Yeah, you were always Myra inside.  I felt it, man!  There was always something girly about you, even that time when we snuck under the bleachers to look up Emma Liu’s skirt. Myra Breckenridge: No, you don’t-  I’m not-  Fuck! Mike Silver: ???  Anyhoo, some people are worried on your wall. Myra Breckenridge: How’d you find me, Mike? Mike Silver: fb asked me to tag you in your profile pic Grayden Liu: Hey Myra, your trans too?  You look awesome!  Did you get your hormones at the Eastdale clinic?  I’m so jealous!  They have a wait list for trans men. Myra Breckenridge: What?  Emma Liu?  !!! Myra J. Breckenridge:  You fucker!  Identity thief!  You know how long I was on the phone with Banana Republic trying to get my rewards points back?  If I ever track you down I’m gonna kikk your ass! Steve Daniels:  Wow, u are a hot tranny!  so feminine.  still have ur dick?  That’s how I like it!  are u on Grindr? Stephanie Ridgenbreck: Myron?  Mike Silver posted that he found you.  Don’t do this to me again, Myron!  I mean Myra!  Bear with me, sweetie.  I’ll get it right eventually!  Come back, we’ll go shopping with Jen at Target! Myra Breckenridge: I always hated shopping with Jen as a boy, mom.  Why would it be better as a girl? Laverne Cox:  I welcome our sister Myra Breckenridge to Facebook and wish her luck in her acting career.  But while her struggles are significant, we must remember the pervasive violence and discrimination  that trans women of color face daily. Jordan DiGiulio:  Hey Myra you look GORGEOUS!  Mike Silver told me you transitioned, but I didn’t believe it.  Your skin is flawless!  I’m so jealous. Myra Breckenridge:  Coming from you, Jordan, that is quite a compliment! You were always the most popular girl in tenth grade.  How are the kids? Jordan DiGiulio: Aw, you’re so sweet!  Anyway, here’s this BuzzFeed article that made me think of you Myra Breckenridge: The one about the women in Kyrgyzstan who wear “Man hats” when they pick apples?  Yeah, I saw that one back in October. Jordan DiGiulio:  I bet you can totally relate! Myra Breckenridge: Oh, totally. Jordan DiGiulio:  I mean, gender! Myra Breckenridge: Thanks for thinking of me!  Justin Haripaul: Hey Myra!  You look great!  Why didn’t you tell me about this? Myra Breckenridge: Oh Justin, I didn’t think you’d understand. Justin Haripaul: Listen, you’re my friend and I’m there for you.  We’ll make things work for you in New York.  You didn’t need to run away! Myra Breckenridge:  You’re so sweet! Justin Haripaul: Where in California are you?  Samantha and I will get a flight out there.  We want to make sure you’re safe. Myra Breckenridge: I’m actually not in California. Justin Haripaul:  Huh?? Where are you? Myra Breckenridge:  Hackensack, right near the Anderson Ave station Justin Haripaul: Hackensack? Myra Breckenridge:  This is as far as I could get without showing ID
Page 5 – Trans Blog