{"title": "Transgender, and 55+ years in the closet", "date": "Sat, 25 Apr 2015 04:55:38 +0000", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2015/04/24/trans-and-55-years-in-the-closet/", "tags": ["Actions", "Allies", "Articles", "Media", "The closet"], "text": "One thing jumped out at me from Bruce Jenner\u2019s ABC interview about his transgender feelings, beliefs and actions: he has been wearing women\u2019s clothes in private for over fifty-five years.  I noticed this when I listened to Lana Wachowski\u2019s speech to the Human Rights Campaign, and even when I read interviews with Richard O\u2019Brien.  All three described being fascinated with women\u2019s clothes since childhood.  Why didn\u2019t they feel comfortable telling anyone about it before they started taking hormones and wearing women\u2019s clothes in public? Let me be clear: I am not blaming Jenner, Wachowski or O\u2019Brien; they are completely entitled to their choices.  I can understand people not wanting to talk about a private aspect of their life, and nobody is required to talk to the media about their transgender feelings or beliefs if they don\u2019t want to, no matter how famous they are.  Actor, director, sports star, stepfather to reality television superstars, everyone has a right to privacy. I can understand people not wanting to discuss their life plans before they\u2019re finalized.  If someone is planning to go back to school for their MD, or move to Portland, or live the rest of their life as a woman, they need to figure out how to do what\u2019s right for themself while honoring their obligations to family and friends.  It may take a long time to do that, and they don\u2019t need to tell anyone. And yet, Jenner and Wachowski are just two in a long line of trans women who talk about wearing women\u2019s clothes in secret for years before declaring their gender transitions.  (O\u2019Brien is a bit different: he made his feelings and beliefs pretty clear in his plays and movies.)  There are hardly any famous trans women who feel comfortable talking about their feelings or actions while deciding whether to transition, let alone wearing women\u2019s clothes in public.  And among those famous trans women who have decided not to transition, very few are out about it in any way. For me, as someone who decided long ago not to transition, the support that these declarations receive from some quarters rings a bit hollow.  Often it feels like people are cheering the transition more than expressing support for people who have trans feelings.  And it makes me wonder: what would they have said in 1995 if Wachowski had simply mentioned in an interview that she was considering transitioning but hadn\u2019t made up her mind?  Or in 1985 if Jenner had told Phil Donohue that he was a cross-dresser?  It makes me wonder: would these people show the same support to someone who chose my path? Would you show the same support to someone who chose my path?  Would you want to know about my transgender feelings, regardless of what I do about them?  Would you defend me against discrimination?  Would you support my right to use bathrooms consistent with my gender expression, even if my gender expression changes from day to day? If so, please tell the world.  Say it louder.  Because I don\u2019t think Bruce Jenner heard you.", "feedtitle": "Page 5 \u2013 Trans Blog"}