Predators, prey and gender overlap
Wed, 01 Apr 2015 04:31:39 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2015/03/31/predators-prey-and-gender-overlap/
Articles Categorization Kludges Patriarchy 
In 2013 I wrote about how I and many other people sometimes interact with the world as a woman, and sometimes as a man.  Some people are very uncomfortable with this.  They may accept the idea that a person is “really” a different gender inside, or that they have to live as a different gender, but they want everyone to transition and get it over with.  They hate the idea that someone could be a man one day and a woman the next and a man again the following day, or even both simultaneously. I puzzled over this for years, but I think I’ve figured out now why some people are violently opposed (many of them quite literally) to the idea of someone being both a man and a woman.  It is because they see the two categories as not just incompatible but as antagonists, even enemies.  It is because they see men as predators and women as prey. Our culture has many metaphors based on this model.  We talk about sexual predators (the vast majority of them are men), men being out on the prowl, women as trophies and feathers in caps.  We talk about the chase and about the thrill of the hunt.  There are other metaphors where women are valuable prizes won by men, and in the other direction where men are fish or bears, and women are trying to catch them with nets and traps, but the ones where men are hunting women are more common. These metaphors are not created out of thin air.  In my first grade class a common pastime of the boys was to have “girl chases” (I boycotted them on principle, so I don’t know what happened if a boy ever caught a girl).  When I was a teenager I learned from movies and songs that getting a pretty girl – or at least having a pretty girl say that she liked him – was one of the main goals in life, and a way that a boy could get people to like and respect him. I have known people who really do relate to the other primary gender in those terms most of the time.  I’ve known men whose first reaction on meeting a woman is to size her up as a potential mate.  Those who are suitable they pursue, and if they catch them they may use them and drop them. Those who are not suitable they try to ignore, or to relate to as “one of the guys.” If that fails, they are often at a loss. Similarly, I have known women who evaluate all men as potential threats.  Those who turn out to be threats they may run away from, or grit their teeth and try to bear it.  Those who are not threats they try to ignore, or dismiss as annoying boys.  If that fails, they are similarly at a loss. Some women reject the idea that trans people who were raised male can be women, but are occasionally willing to make an exception for passable trans women with lots of female socialization – provided that they transition, get rid of as much of their maleness as possible, and then stay transitioned.  If we spend any time as men, we’re automatically disqualified.  This makes sense if they are thinking of us as predators: we can’t be simultaneously predators and prey, so we must be wolves in sheep’s clothing. Similarly, men who attack trans women seem to do so when they feel attracted, but there is some unmistakable sign of the trans woman’s maleness.  This also can be understood (not excused, of course) if they are thinking of men as predators and women as prey.  Just when they think they have caught their prey and begin to let their guard down, she turns into a predator before their eyes! Anyone who has actually made the effort to relate to people of other genders as human beings knows how superficial this way of thinking is, and how unrewarding.  The reality is that both men and women are people, and every person is a complex individual.  Some are nice and some are not.  But of course, if they’re treating you either like a predator or like prey, you can’t get to know them anyway.
Page 6 – Trans Blog