The lure of fake community leaders
Sun, 08 Mar 2015 04:46:39 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2015/03/07/the-lure-of-fake-community-leaders/
Allies Articles Glamour 
Remember in 2002 when George Bush assured us that the Iraqis would welcome our invading armies “with open arms”?  When we actually did invade that welcome was a lot less warm. A lot of people wondered what Bush and his cabinet were thinking.  Where did they get that idea?  It’s not like they took a poll of Iraqi citizens living under Saddam’s police state. It turned out that this idea of a grateful, welcoming Iraqi people came from Ahmed Chalabi, an Iraqi exile living in Washington who had regular contact with the US media and Beltway thought leaders.  He hadn’t taken a poll of Iraqis either: his “intelligence” came from what people in his own echo chamber of exiles were saying, with a heavy dose of his own fantasies.  Add in the fantasies of Bush advisers like Condoleeza Rice and Paul Wolfowitz, and we get a disaster of epic proportions that we’re still paying for today. Unfortunately, Ahmed Chalabi’s con was not unique.  There are many Chalabis around the world who tell a compelling story about Their People. How they were victims of the Enemy, unfairly brutalized – and often still are.  How they desperately need help. A big part of that story is You.  You can help, when nobody else will.  You can put an end the injustice.  You can save Their People.  And Their People will love you for it.  They will probably do something nice in return. You can see how seductive this idea was to people like George W. Bush and Paul Wolfowitz.  A friend, whose People were being unjustly treated.  All they have to do is deploy some expensive troops and planes that are sitting around doing nothing, and they can right that wrong, and earn the gratitude of the Iraqi People.  They’ll look good, and earn influence.  What could possibly go wrong? The interesting thing is that some of what Chalabi was saying was the truth.  His people were being victimized, they did appreciate being liberated and restored to their homeland, and they did shower the Bush Administration with favors and grant them influence and access. What went wrong was that Chalabi’s people weren’t the Iraqi people.  If they had been, everything would have gone according to plan (maybe).  But they were only a small subset of the Iraqi people, a narrow slice of the elite.  Most of the rest of the population did appreciate getting rid of Saddam, but they did not like the rest of the invasion and occupation, which was planned without consulting them, and often without acknowledging their existence.  They certainly did not want Chalabi running the country.  So they resisted him, and the occupation. Boy those right wingers sure are stupid, huh?  Nobody on the left would base their political actions on the words of a few friends!  We always take these stories with healthy skepticism.  And our humble left-wing friends would never take their experience and present it as that of an entire group.  Right? Sadly, the left is just as susceptible to our own Ahmed Chalabis as the Bush Administration was.  They’re friends!  They’re victims!  Other people listen to them!  How could we doubt them? Even more sadly, there are many in the transgender world who stoop to Chalabi-style tactics, claiming to speak for the entire community and offering the undying gratitude of all trans people to anyone who uses the proper pronouns and recites the prescribed incantations.  This may work for the people in the roles of Bush and Chalabi, at least for a time, but in the end nobody is really better off, and those of us who do not have access to these wannabe allies are in the worst situation of all.
Page 6 – Trans Blog