Creating body dysphoria
Wed, 14 Jan 2015 06:01:32 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2015/01/14/creating-body-dysphoria/
Articles Beliefs Feelings 
Some people believe that there are two kinds of dysphoria: social dysphoria, meaning a discomfort with the social expectations associated with a gender role, and body dysphoria, meaning a discomfort with the awareness of physical sex characteristics. In this worldview (sometimes called “truscum”; the word is adopted as a badge of pride by many people who espouse it), the feeling of body dysphoria separates the true transsexuals from the wannabe “transtrenders.”  It is a “medical condition,” resulting from a mismatch between brain sex and the shape of the body, and the only cure is full hormonal and surgical transition.  Social dysphoria, by contrast, is a malaise resulting from society’s restrictive gender roles, and affects everyone who’s paying attention.  The only cure for this is reforming society to equalize the sexes, and any other response is a waste of time. In the truscum worldview, resources available for trans people are scarce, and the true transsexuals with their medical condition deserve priority over the transtrenders who only experience social dysphoria.  Transtrenders also monopolize media time and attention, and trivialize transgender problems in people’s minds. This argument rests on two claims: (a) that body dysphoria is qualitatively different from other kinds of gender dysphoria and much more intense, and (b) that body dysphoria is innate – either you have it or you don’t. When I first heard this argument I was skeptical of the first claim.  Does body dysphoria even exist, I wondered?  I couldn’t think of a way it could arise psychologically, so I didn’t really think too much about the claim that it was innate.  Now I’ve not only seen that body dysphoria does exist, but I’ve also seen how it can develop, in fully grown adults who never experienced it before. My friend Claire said she had never felt any dissatisfaction with her body until she transitioned.  But after a significant period of being accepted as a woman, and then a single incident focused on her genitals, she began to experience intense, traumatic body dysphoria.  And she’s not the only one. I’ve heard similar stories from other trans women, and they all have the same pattern: feeling accepted as a woman, thinking of themselves as a woman (with no “trans” qualifier), and having to confront the fact of having male anatomy at a time when it was inconvenient (or worse) to have it. The fact that all of these women were fully grown adults when they first experienced body dysphoria means that there is no way to neatly divide the world into “true transsexuals” and “wannabe transtrenders.”  It doesn’t show that body dysphoria is never innate, but it does prove that it isn’t always innate.  We’re not all born this way.
Page 6 – Trans Blog