Unethical therapy
Sun, 04 Jan 2015 05:44:28 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2015/01/04/unethical-therapy/
Actions Articles Beliefs General News Media Violence 
When 17-year-old Leelah Alcorn committed suicide on December 27, she left a note on Tumblr urging action to help trans people like herself: The only way I will rest in peace is if one day transgender people aren’t treated the way I was, they’re treated like humans, with valid feelings and human rights. Gender needs to be taught about in schools, the earlier the better. My death needs to mean something. My death needs to be counted in the number of transgender people who commit suicide this year. I want someone to look at that number and say “that’s fucked up” and fix it. Fix society. Please. Some trans people have responded to Alcorn’s call for action with a petition to ban “the practice known as ‘transgender conversion therapy.'”  Here’s how Alcorn described her therapy experience in an October posting to Reddit found by Cristan Williams: I wanted to see a gender therapist but they wouldn’t let me, they thought it would corrupt my mind. The would only let me see biased Christian therapists, who instead of listening to my feelings would try to change me into a straight male who loved God, and I would cry after every session because I felt like it was hopeless and there was no way I would ever become a girl. I wholeheartedly agree that what Alcorn describes is a disgrace to the therapeutic profession, and that it should be stopped.  The goal of any therapy should be to give the client a place to be heard and respected, to free them from repression, and to help them find the path that works for them.  Biased, faith-based sessions where the only acceptable outcome is determined in advance is inhumane brainwashing, not therapy.  If it takes a law to stop it, I’m in favor. Photo: Barbara B. Shostak, Ph.D. / Flickr. This image is not an endorsement That said, I have concerns about this drive to outlaw all “conversion” and “reparative” therapies.  I want to make sure there is room for the kind of therapy that I want and need: therapy that helps me to live in the gender that I was assigned at birth. As I’ve written before, I feel many of the same feelings that other trans people feel, but believing in a gender identity goes against my skepticism, and many years ago I chose not to transition.  Over the years, with the help of several therapists and the support of friends and family, I have succeeded in losing a lot of my repression, but I still have to deal with those transgender feelings, and I will probably need to see therapists, at least occasionally, for the rest of my life. My therapists have been supportive of my decision not to transition, and I am confident that if someone came to them wanting to transition, they would be similarly supportive of their decisions.  Unlike the therapists hired by Alcorn’s parents, my therapists listen to me, and respect me. I’ve never been to a gender therapist.  From what I’ve seen and heard – from the therapists themselves as well as from other trans people – there are very few who have any idea how to help someone like me who’s decided not to transition.  While they may pay lip service to the idea of not transitioning, they seem to see their job as helping trans people jump through the hoops necessary for transition.  What happens if a trans person changes their mind about transition – or decides to detransition?  Are they simply declared to be “not really trans after all,” and left to fend for themselves? Gender therapy is better than “conversion” therapy, because it doesn’t impose anything that the client doesn’t want, and it’s better than the “gatekeeping” practices that were prevalent for the late twentieth century, but it is still a biased situation where the only acceptable outcome is determined in advance. We trans people need therapy, and we deserve a range of options where we can find support for the path we choose.  We do not need therapy that is just another way for parents to repress us, as Leelah Alcorn described her “Christian” therapy.  But we do need support for those of us who have chosen to live without transitioning.
Page 6 – Trans Blog