When you’re the insult
Mon, 22 Dec 2014 01:04:20 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/12/21/when-youre-the-insult/
Allies Articles Blog news Media Verbal Hygiene 
Radical feminists have been critical of transgender beliefs and actions for years, going back at least to Janice Raymond in 1979.  Trans people have had various responses to these critiques, from acceptance to outright demonization, and sometimes including substantive, thoughtful critiques of radical feminism.  Frequently, arguments between trans activists and radfems degenerate into vicious name-calling and worse. Third Way Trans has a compelling explanation for these fights: “this debate is not really about a scientific question, but it is about an emotional need, and both groups contain a lot of people that have been traumatized, particularly by men, and both need safety. However, these needs are also fundamentally incompatible in some ways which leads to the current impasse.” I’m not interested in getting into arguments where either side is dehumanizing the other, so I’ve generally avoided the issue.  At one point I did try to make common ground with some FTMTF detransitioners, but when those conversations turned into dehumanizing attacks on me I gave up.  I found out last night that back in January the radical feminist blog GenderTrender reposted an entire post of mine without asking or telling me, for the sole purpose of mocking me and other trans people.  The thing is that there are certain aspects of the radfem critique of trans beliefs that I agree with, and others that I find at least thought-provoking.  I am open to discussions with people who are willing to show me basic respect and empathy, not scream at me and definitely not laugh at me behind my back. Joel Nowak, a MFTM “retransitioner,” is someone I respect and doesn’t do dehumanizing, so I took it seriously when he recommended the website of Ms. Hell Bedlam.  Sadly, after reading Hell Bedlam’s site, I found it to be just as essentialist and dehumanizing as all the other radfem critiques, even if it does have the advantage of succinctly stating all the main points in a single location. I had a hard time getting across to Joel the main thing that bothered me about Hell Bedlam’s site.  After all, she says that she doesn’t hate the good transsexuals!  I’m not one of those misogynistic essentialists who wants to speak over feminists, so why should I take offense?  No, I’m not.  I’m not the target of Ms. Hell Bedlam’s rage at all.  I’m something much worse to her: I’m what she accuses the “anti-feminist trans activists” of secretly being: one of those “middle class white males with a cross-dressing fetish and great love for their penises,” a “be-penised cross-dresser.” Wait, you may be saying.  I thought Hell Bedlam’s site was all about trans woman who claim the right to unilaterally change the language and talk over feminists.  What do cross-dressing, fetishes and penises have to do with these things? The answer is nothing, it’s a complete non-sequitur.  From what I can tell, Hell Bedlam brings it into the conversation (along with a long page about Ray Blanchard’s moronic “HSTS/autogynephilic” typology and lots of examples of transvestite erotica) primarily because the two things that upset transgender dogmatists the most are “You’re a fetishist,” and “You’re a MAN!” I am not offended by either claim, because I freely acknowledge that I am both a man and a fetishist.  I love my penis as much as I love my left arm or my right eye, or any other part of me.  But I am offended by being so dehumanized that I’m not even a demon, I’m just the insult that Hell Bedlam uses to hurt the trans dogmatists.
Page 6 – Trans Blog