Unsweet transvestites
Wed, 17 Dec 2014 04:54:30 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/12/16/unsweet-transvestites/
Articles Media 
I think the first time I heard the word “transvestite,” it was in the context of the Rocky Horror Picture Show.  For years I thought it had nothing to do with me, that any resemblance was purely coincidental.  Now I’m convinced that the movie, and the play that it’s based on, is an insightful examination of transgender feelings and actions. I don’t remember if I had already started sneaking into my sister’s room to try on her neglected pantyhose and dresses, or if I had only fantasized about being a pretty girl in makeup and heels.  Either way, it was around the time I turned twelve that my sister told us about a movie she’d gone to see with a friend.  They had shouted and thrown toilet paper at the screen!  It was a wacky movie with singing, dancing and a transvestite! What was a transvestite?  It was a man who dressed up in women’s clothes, they said.  Kind of like the actor my dad told me about – or even like me!  Was this person pretty, or even sexy?  I was curious, but when I tried to find out more it was all about the Frankenstein Place and the Galaxy of Transylvania and people named Meat Loaf and Columbia.  The soundtrack that my sister started playing didn’t help me at all. Finally, we visited some friends of the family who had a weird book adaptation, illustrated with copious stills from the movie, like one of those Tumblr gif sets except the pictures didn’t move.  I snuck off and perused it, eager to see what a transvestite looked like. I honestly didn’t know what to make of the character of Dr. Frank N. Furter, the mad scientist.  He didn’t pad his breasts, his makeup looked like clown makeup, and what did he have on his legs? Was he wearing some kind of shorts over his tights? Eventually I learned about fishnets and garter belts, and then I figured out what I was seeing.  But I still didn’t find Dr. Frank remotely sexy, let alone pretty.  I filed the Rocky Horror Picture Show under Weird Cross-dressing Things I Can’t Relate To.  This file went in the drawer with the file of Weird Relationship Things I Can’t Relate To, and Weird Political Things I Can’t Relate To. Like a bunch of things in that drawer, several years later I had a chance to take Rocky Horror out of the file and examine it.  And several years after that I took it out again, and now it doesn’t seem so foreign to me.  I’ll talk more about that in future posts.
Page 6 – Trans Blog