Claire’s story
Mon, 08 Dec 2014 04:52:12 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/12/07/claires-story/
Articles Feelings passing 
My friend Claire is a trans woman who graciously agreed to share her story for this blog. For most of her life she had no body dysphoria.  “The funny thing is in the very beginning, I didn’t care,” she told me of her male anatomy.  But then things changed.  “I transition and the only thing I want is it gone.” Claire began her transition in 2013, and by most measures she was wildly successful.  For a trans woman of color, even more so.  Her family and friends did not reject her and got her new name and pronouns right most of the time.  Her small business continued to prosper, and her customers all took her transition in stride.  “Everything came easy to me in transition and coming out, so I lived in a world where no one knew unless I told them.” Even after transition, she didn’t mind her genitals at first, but she began to grow dissatisfied with them.  And then something happened that brought about a drastic change in her feelings. Earlier this year, Claire went on a vacation with her new boyfriend.  They had a great time, and everyone treated Claire as a woman.  “I forget that I’m actually trans at times,” she told me.  Then when it came time to board the plane home, the TSA was performing pat-downs on all the women at that checkpoint.  She thought nothing of it until the screener discovered a bulge. The TSA screener had apparently never patted down a trans woman, and was unsure of the protocol, but Claire reassured her that she was indeed a woman and belonged there with all the other women.  Eventually the screener let Claire fetch her driver’s license from her purse, completed the search and allowed her into the boarding area. “She did everything right,” Claire says.  And yet, Claire was traumatized by the incident.  She started crying, and despite her boyfriend’s best efforts to comfort her, she couldn’t stop.  She locked herself in a bathroom stall until the last minute, and then boarded the plane home.  On the plane she sobbed into a pillow to avoid disturbing other passengers, and cried until she fell asleep. That was just the beginning.  “Months of depression and suicidal tendencies from just one experience,” Claire says.  Significantly, she developed intense body dysphoria, focused on her genitals, which she still feels months later.  “I really despise that thing but I know I have to live with that. For the mean time.”  She says that she is currently feeling better, but she doesn’t know if the depression will return. Claire’s story, and similar ones I’ve heard from other people, have important implications for all trans people, and I will discuss it further in future posts, but for this post I want to let it stand by itself.
Page 6 – Trans Blog