When my dad made a transgender movie
Tue, 02 Dec 2014 05:45:57 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/12/02/when-my-dad-made-a-trans-movie/
Allies Articles Media passing The closet Violence 
When I was a kid my dad, who was a sound engineer, told me how he had worked on a movie with an actress who was really a man.  I believe those were the words he used.  He said, “She looked and sounded just like a woman, but she had to take a break and shave around five o’clock.” It’s hard to know how much things like this affect your thoughts, but the story stuck with me, and it was probably swimming around in my head when I started thinking that life might be a lot easier if I didn’t correct people when they thought I was a girl.  It went in there with Holly Woodlawn’s cross-country gender change in “Walk on the Wild Side,” Princess Ozma, a girl named Patrice in my elementary school who bore an uncanny resemblance to a boy named Donavan at my summer camp, Bugs Bunny, and any number of madcap comedies where a boy disguises himself as a girl. Years later, after I developed a habit of wearing women’s clothes and came out to my father about it, I asked him for more details about the movie.  He didn’t remember it quite that way.  It turned out that the actress in question was Candy Darling, an associate of Holly Woodlawn’s in Andy Warhol’s Factory, and the movie was called Some of My Best Friends Are… It was an ensemble piece about gay life in Greenwich Village, set in a single bar on a Christmas Eve, and was released three days before I was born. When the film came out, Vincent Canby unfavorably compared it to The Boys in the Band, which I haven’t seen, while noting that it “may well be more accurate.”  Citizen Kane it ain’t, but it’s not horrible.  Candy Darling’s performance in the film was straight dramatic acting, unlike her campy performances in Warhol’s movies.  And my dad didn’t tell me that she played a transvestite who was attacked for being trans. I looked up Some of My Best Friends Are… last night and discovered that someone had put the scenes with Candy Darling on YouTube.  My dad was right that she did pass well; I was a bit envious.  I was also impressed at how well the director, Mervyn Nelson, captured the feeling of gender fog, even if it was a bit over the top.  But I found the bashing scene very disturbing.  I’ve never been comfortable with movie violence, but the fact that the character Karen was attacked in part for passing so well, in a bar full of men who tried and failed to protect her, was particularly upsetting. Things may be better now than they were in 1971.  More people are out of the closet, and gay bars are probably safer for transvestites, at least for those of us who are white and middle class.  But for those who are poor or nonwhite, things are still dangerous.  At least ten trans women have been killed this year in the United States.  The character of Karen survived being beaten; how many people survived a similar beating this year? If you want to change things, here are two ideas: (1) make sure everyone knows that you don’t think we should be beaten or killed, and (2) leverage intersectionality to make life safer for trans people who are poor, nonwhite, sex workers or perceived as “gay.”
Page 6 – Trans Blog