Passing and credibility
Tue, 18 Nov 2014 03:38:24 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/11/17/passing-and-credibility/
Actions Articles Grooming passing 
You don’t have to hang around the trans world very long to encounter a message like “passability is overrated.”  Many people go further and argue that passing should not be a goal.  Yes, passing is overrated, and it means nothing in itself.  But it does have value for other goals, and right now I want to focus on one goal in particular: credibility. Activism needs credibility.  Activism is all about convincing people.  We want the public to believe that we deserve respect, that we deserve protection from discrimination and hate crimes, that we deserve access to bathrooms and medical care. We also need credibility in our personal lives.  Those of us who transition need others to believe in their transitions, to treat them as their desired gender.  Those of us who don’t transition need others to believe that we can still be responsible members of society, that we should still be loved, and even that we don’t need to transition. It shouldn’t surprise anyone that attractive people have more success at convincing others.  People pay more attention to attractive people (and here I don’t mean just sexually attractive).  They also pay more attention to people who look “like us.”  Maybe you think that’s not fair, it’s not the way things should be, and you’re probably right.  We should work to make the world a more tolerant place.  But there’s no point in ignoring the way that the world currently works. The uncanny valley also turns people off.  That’s the area where people have difficulty processing an image as a person or a thing, or a person or an animal.  It’s also where people have difficulty deciding whether someone is a man or a woman, or “one of us” or one of them.  The squirming depicted in Julia Sweeney’s “It’s Pat” sketches is a real-life occurrence.  Again, maybe that’s not the way the world should be, and maybe we should change it.  But we can’t ignore that the world is that way right now. This is one reason why charismatic, attractive, passable people like Janet Mock and Chaz Bono are so popular as spokespeople for transgender activism.  It’s also why such people are more readily accepted as members of their target gender.  Again, that’s not the way it should be, but it is.
Page 6 – Trans Blog