{"title": "The importance of being hombres", "date": "Wed, 28 Jun 2017 02:45:52 +0000", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2017/06/27/the-importance-of-being-hombres/", "tags": ["Actions", "Categorization", "Verbal Hygiene"], "text": "On Facebook someone posted a while ago asking where in Queens there were bars showing RuPaul\u2019s Drag Race.  The answer was a bar called Hombres. At gay bars and other places explicitly marked as male spaces, you\u2019ll often find not just drag fans but drag queens, transvestites and other non-transitioning trans people.  You will also find that when we get home from these spaces we usually take off the makeup and falsies and look a lot like men.  Sometimes we change into guy clothes before we leave the bar.  Sometimes we wear guy clothes the whole time. This guyness extends to other environments.  We usually present as guys at our day jobs, when we\u2019re doing laundry, and when we go hiking.  Interacting with the world as women is a relatively small part of our lives. This is often used by transitioned trans women to deny that we are trans, and thus to deny us a voice in transgender politics.  In 2014 there was a heated debate over who had the right to declare words like \u201ctranny\u201d taboo.  RuPaul and other drag queens saw the words as either not particularly offensive or ripe for reclamation, while a group of transitioners saw them as potent slurs. The transitioners were used to having the upper hand in these verbal hygiene debates by virtue of ideologies of linguistic self-determination, in which only members of a group have standing to determine which  words are appropriate names for the group and its members, and which words are offensive.  But the drag queens had long been considered part of the \u201ctransgender umbrella\u201d with equal standing to transitioned trans people. The transitioners\u2019 response was to redefine \u201ctrans women.\u201d  Zinnia Jones wrote a petition stating that \u201cCisgender male drag queens are assigned male at birth, and they neither consider themselves to be women nor live as women in their everyday lives. Unlike trans women, they are not the ones who regularly face the consequences of widespread transphobia and transmisogyny, and they are not confronted with the fallout of normalizing transmisogynist slurs.\u201d It\u2019s highly debatable whether people who regularly go to drag bars face less transphobia than people who are out during the day, but victimhood wasn\u2019t originally part of the definition of transgender, and it shouldn\u2019t be. It\u2019s also not clear that drag queens don\u2019t consider themselves to be women.   I\u2019ve never been to Hombres but if it\u2019s anything like the gay bars I\u2019ve been to, chances are that inside you\u2019ll probably hear all the drag queens, and even some of the more masculine-presenting people, referred to with \u201cshe\u201d pronouns and in Spanish, feminine adjectives. This may occasionally be a mockery of femininity, but most of the time it is a response to a simple desire to be classified as women in a particular situation.  Some people have observed that it is relatively common for people to spend months or years living as men and performing in drag shows, and then later transition to living as women, for a variety of reasons. That is only part of the story.  Many drag queens and other trans women have decided that we don\u2019t want to transition.  When people are allowed to be free with our genders, we choose what works for us, from one column or another.  Drag queens go to bars called Hombres and answer to \u201cshe.\u201d  I buy nylons for women and razors for men.  I have friends who buy jackets for men and bras for women.  Everyone mixes and matches on some level. So are we transgender?  Are we trans women?  The key fact in my mind is that many of us experience one or both of the key feelings of gender dysphoria (in our case, discomfort living as men) or transgender desire (wanting to live as women).  The fact that we cope with these feelings without adopting a full-time identity as a woman or modifying our bodies does not mean that we don\u2019t feel the feelings. If you force us to choose one gender and stick with it, we will probably say we\u2019re men, and there\u2019s a good reason for it.  We\u2019ve got these bodies and we\u2019re not changing them, and on some level we\u2019re used to living as men.  We probably also know, maybe from firsthand experience, that being a woman is no picnic either. If you know that you\u2019re not going to transition, and you\u2019re going to spend eighty percent, ninety percent of your life or more interacting with the world as a man, and if someone forces you to choose whether to think of yourself as a man or a woman, it makes sense to choose man.  That means your internal self-image and your external self-image match for most of your week. So yes, we call ourselves men, but that is because our binary society pressures us to choose men or women.  It does not mean that we\u2019re always happy being men, and it doesn\u2019t mean that we wouldn\u2019t choose both if we could, or whichever one fits at the time.", "feedtitle": "Trans Blog"}