6 ways you can use intersectionality to help stop trans murders
Fri, 07 Nov 2014 04:29:39 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/11/06/use-intersectionality-to-help-end-trans-murders/
Articles Categorization Violence 
You’ve heard (I hope) that the vast majority of trans people who are killed are male to female living in poverty, and many are sex workers and immigrants.  Here in the United States, most of the dead are black or Latina, and often both. This is intersectionality at work: if they were just poor, or just female, or just seen as gay, or just nonwhite, or just immigrants, or just employed illegally, or just sex workers, or even just trans, their risk of being murdered would already be higher than a non-trans straight white middle-class legally employed male American citizen. Together, though, these risks multiply, and even reinforce each other: if you’re female, or trans, or nonwhite, or an immigrant, you’re more likely to be poor, and if you’re poor you’re more likely to work in the “informal economy,” including sex work.  If you’ve immigrated in violation of the laws or work in the informal economy you’re under constant threat from law enforcement, and if you’re seen as poor or nonwhite or gay or female, you’re more likely to face discrimination when it comes to police protection and employment.  It’s also harder to get a good education when you’re poor, which makes it hard to get work.  If you can’t get a good job you get poorer, and the cycle continues. A large amount of anti-trans sentiment is related to anti-gay sentiment.  The real solution is not to convince people that MTF trans people and the men who have sex with us aren’t gay, but to make it okay for us to be seen as gay.  It should be like being mistaken for Irish when you’re really Scottish in the US today: a minor inaccuracy that’s annoying at worst. We can use intersectionality to solve these problems too.  If we could bring murder rates for nonwhite, poor and immigrant trans women down to those of white middle-class trans women we’d eliminate most of the killing.  If we could bring the rates for African American trans sex workers down to those of non-trans, non-sex-worker African-American women it would be a huge improvement. With that in mind, here are some intersectional ways to help stop violence against trans people:  Break the cycle of poverty. Adequately fund public education. End racial discrimination.  Enforce equal opportunity laws. Help immigrants. Create an immigration policy that makes our country welcoming again. End sex worker harassment.  End the use of condoms as evidence for prostitution. End violence against women.  Speak out against rape culture and domestic violence.  Examine your own actions for ways that you might commit or condone such violence. End homophobia.  Support respect, dignity and equality for gay men, lesbians and bisexuals.  Which of them is easiest for you to start working on?  Which is hardest?
Page 7 – Trans Blog