I tried to be cured
Tue, 04 Nov 2014 02:26:46 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/11/03/i-tried-to-be-cured/
Articles Feelings 
There have been several times in my life when my transgender desire – my desire to be a woman, even though I was raised to be a man, with a man’s body – has gotten less intense, less frequent, to the point that I thought it might be gone for good. I was tremendously relieved.  I didn’t want to be a transvestite.  I didn’t want a closetful of clothes that could get me mocked and rejected.  I didn’t want to look into my mom’s eyes and see nothing but worry and pity.  I didn’t want to harbor a secret that could get me blackmailed. Twice I purged.  I threw away all the women’s clothes I had collected, painstakingly, sometimes illegally, over the course of years.  I put my past out of my mind.  I no longer had anything to hide.  That part of my life was over. But that part of my life was not over.  What I eventually discovered was that my transgender desires come and go with my gender dysphoria – my discomfort with my life as a man.  When I feel satisfied with my life as a man, my desire to be a woman diminishes.  I will not feel completely satisfied with my life, every day until I die.  And when I am feeling particularly dissatisfied, life as a woman will seem like a great escape. Life as a woman certainly seemed like a great escape when I was twelve.  Of course it isn’t, I know that now.  I learned from listening to women, and a few fleeting, incomplete experiences of living as a woman were enough to drive the point home.  But when I’m feeling trapped and hopeless, the dysphoria returns. As I’ve said before, I don’t think the dysphoria always gets worse.  But it does come back, and with it comes the desire to be a woman, to look like a woman, to dress like a woman.  That’s what happened to me after the two times I purged.  That, in turn, is why I don’t purge any more, and why I don’t ever believe I’ll be “cured.”  If I did purge, I might enjoy some extra closet space for a while, but soon enough I would wind up paying again for expensive clothes and makeup. I actually wouldn’t mind a cure for the trans feelings.  None of them are very pleasant, even the euphoric post-event gratification.  I’m not one of those people who think being trans is a gift.  But I just don’t see it happening.  Some day we may figure out how to prevent it, but I doubt we’ll be able to cure it.
Page 7 – Trans Blog