Outsider perspective
Fri, 31 Oct 2014 03:11:24 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/10/30/outsider-perspective/
Articles Beliefs Categorization 
I was talking with some trans men recently, and they said something to the effect of, “Nobody told me I’d be short!”  Obviously, they knew how tall they were, both on an absolute  scale and relative to the men around them, but they knew it in their heads.  That didn’t really prepare them for the reality of going through life as a short guy.  Similarly, nothing prepared me for the reality of being a tall, overweight woman, for the pain of walking in heels and the discomfort of the male gaze. When I posted about my trans feelings back in January, one response was that I didn’t sound like a woman, that the feelings I wrote about don’t support any claims to “interiority,” and that I have an “outsider perspective.”  The commenter assumed that I would claim this interiority because I identified as a trans woman, but the point of my post was that I don’t claim any kind of interior femininity.  I do have occasional flashes of “insider perspective” on a woman’s life, but they come from the limited time I’ve spent in women’s roles, not from some essential “interiority.” I’ve observed the same thing in other trans people.  The degree of understanding I see in other trans women is proportional to the amount of real experience they have living in the world as women and interacting with others as women.  And no, experience in support groups and “trans women only” spaces doesn’t count.  I’ve never seen any evidence to support claims of inner femininity. Maybe you say that I don’t see their inner femininity because I’m “really a man.”  But think about the transmasculine friends I mentioned above.  You can’t get much more of an outsider perspective than not knowing how short men are treated.  If you believe that these trans men have always been “really men” too, why didn’t they know? Not only do many trans people persist in claiming interior femininity (or masculinity), but many are willing to accept those claims – or even to claim them on behalf of other people.  Not long ago a trans man told me that I was so obviously feminine that I should be making plans to transition.  It wasn’t the first time people have told me that I should transition, or assumed that I’d already transitioned, or even assumed that I was born and raised a woman.  Some have even assumed I was a trans man.  None of them were right.  People are bad judges of this stuff. Even if you believe that trans women are and have always been women, and that trans men are and have always been men, you should be able to accept that many aspects of masculinity and femininity are cultural, and that knowledge of these aspects is very difficult to acquire without direct experience.  Trans men who haven’t lived as men will have an outsider perspective on many aspects of masculinity, and trans women who have never lived as women will have an outsider perspective on many aspects of femininity.
Page 7 – Trans Blog