Some of us don’t transition
Wed, 22 Oct 2014 06:00:31 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/10/22/some-of-us-dont-transition/
Articles Categorization Verbal Hygiene 
In the past I’ve done verbal hygiene on the words “transgender” and “coming out,” and now I feel like I need to do some on the word “transition.”  I have always thought of transition as meaning that someone takes on a new identity, with a new name and a new presentation, and a new gender marker to go with it.  Almost twenty years ago I decided not to transition, meaning that even though I regularly feel gender dysphoria (a discomfort with living as a man) and transgender desire (a desire to live as a woman), I examined my options and concluded that I wanted to continue living as a man most of the time.  Back then it seemed pretty clear to everyone what transition was, and I chose not to do it. Maybe I’m transitioning to a new Centauri identity…Once in a while when I tell people I’m transgender and out but not transitioning, I get a puzzled reaction about the “not transitioning.”  The first time I recall was about ten years ago from Reid Vanderburgh, but I’ve heard it from several other people since.  The general idea is that everyone’s idea of “transition” is personal.  I can just decide that for me “transition” means not changing much of anything, so then I must have transitioned! I guess this line of thinking is meant in a nice way, but there are a few things that bother me about it.  The first is that it undermines its own claims to respect my definitions.  In this view, I can have any definition of transition I want, as long as I transitioned.  I am not allowed to define transition in such a way that I – or any trans person – have the option to not do it. The second problem is that it erases very real prototype effects.  Maybe Vanderburgh and friends will respect my personal definition of “transition,” but they have no power to compel anyone else to.  Even if people do accept the idea, that means that nobody knows what I mean by “transition” until I tell them. As I understand it, they think that I can talk about “my transition” and everyone will keep an open mind and not make any assumptions about what it entails.  But that’s really not how anyone’s mind works.  We always have an image for any category.  If I mention “my dog,” you’re probably going to imagine a common breed like a yellow Lab or a German Shepherd, or maybe a pit bull or a Maltese if you know city dogs.  If I then tell you I have a great Dane or a Bassett hound or a Chihuahua you might not be surprised, but you won’t envision one until I tell you, because they’re not prototypical dogs. Similarly, if I mention “my transition,” you’re going to envision hormones, surgery and a name and document change, because that’s the common transition image.  There are so many people doing it who are so vocal about it, that me saying, “I shave my legs more often now” is not going to budge the needle. Finally, there’s a message I want to send: that you can be trans and lead a relatively happy life without hormones or surgery, and without significantly changing your gender presentation, name, pronouns or legal documentation.  For me, the easiest way to say that is “I’m trans, and I decided long ago not to transition.”  Take that away, and it makes it that much harder for me to say what I want to say. The bottom line is that people have images, schemas in their heads for every category.  That’s the way the mind works, and saying, “everyone has their own definition” doesn’t make it so.  There are some things you can legislate about language, but you can’t legislate prototypes out of existence.
Page 7 – Trans Blog