{"title": "Sunk costs and the non-transitioner", "date": "Mon, 08 Sep 2014 02:17:31 +0000", "link": "https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/09/07/sunk-costs-and-the-non-transitioner/", "tags": ["Actions", "Articles", "Grooming"], "text": "I\u2019ve talked in the past about my choice to deal with my transgender feelings by coming out of the closet but not transitioning.  There are several challenges to this approach, and tonight I want to talk about the challenge of sunk costs. Why did I buy this lip gloss?For those of us who choose transition, that transition quickly becomes the most important part of life.  It affects almost every facet of how they interact with other people, every minute of their waking lives.  It can affect their bodies in dramatic ways.  It requires a huge investment of time, money and effort in mental preparation, practice, counseling, medical expenses, clothes, accessories, cosmetics and legal and government fees. People who transition see those resources being put to constant use, and often can point to specific milestones towards a goal of being seen as \u201ccompletely a woman\u201d or \u201ccompletely a man\u201d (problematic goals, to be sure, but many people have them).  Whether it\u2019s a transition announcement, a hormone letter, a gender marker change, a gender presentation change, these milestones can serve as confirmation that the resources haven\u2019t been wasted. Sometimes we forget that those of us who don\u2019t transition have significant costs as well.  Many of us spend a lot of time practicing speech and body language, and a lot of money on counseling, soft body mods, clothes, accessories and cosmetics.  But we only see that time, money and energy put to use when we do present as our target gender, and if we don\u2019t transition that may not be very often. In some ways I envy transitioners those milestones and those feelings of accomplishment.  Since I decided not to live as a woman, being \u201ccompletely a woman\u201d or being seen as such is not a goal for me.  In fact, I have no real long-term goal for my transgender activities, other than keeping my transgender feelings within a tolerable range.  I have had short-term goals, like developing a passable voice or learning how to cover my beard shadow with makeup, but if I ever feel I have accomplished one of these goals, I find myself wondering what the point was.  Why spend all that time practicing a voice that I use once or twice a month?  Why spend all that time on makeup skills, and all that money on makeup and instruction, for something I don\u2019t do that often? This is what I call the feeling of sunk costs, and one effect of this feeling is a desire to put those resources to use.  It makes us want to go out more often, to show off that makeup, that voice, to reassure ourselves that we weren\u2019t spending the time and money for nothing.", "feedtitle": "Page 7 \u2013 Trans Blog"}