How I deal with gender fog
Wed, 03 Sep 2014 06:17:52 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/09/03/how-i-deal-with-gender-fog/
Actions Articles Feelings Gender fog 
A friend of mine showed a friend of hers my previous post on gender fog, and it got me thinking that it’s time to write a blog post about dealing with gender fog.  As you can see from my previous post, it’s not like I’ve mastered the thing: it still can give me insomnia for days.  But I have developed some coping mechanisms that I find useful, and maybe they’ll help you too. To recap: Gender fog is a feeling that some transgender people get leading up to, during and sometimes shortly after, a significant gender event.  What makes an event significant is highly subjective and personal, and dependent on the situation.  Between the time when the event is planned and when it happens, I experience an intense excitement, often so intense that it interferes with my sleep.  During that time I find myself planning and visualizing and rehashing every minute detail of the event, no matter how mundane, and often have difficulty concentrating on anything else (like work, friends or family).  If I share my focus with friends or family, no matter how tolerant, they tend to complain that I show little interest in them or their needs.  I sometimes lose my perspective on my own life and make decisions that I later regret.  So what do I do to keep this from getting out of control?  I give myself breaks.  Gender fog is very stressful, and in my experience it impairs my judgment.  I need time when I’m not going through it, to relax and clear my head.  In my experience it gradually subsides over the following week.  After ten days it’s completely gone.  I want at least ten gender-fog-free days, so I try to have these significant gender events at least a month apart. I try not to do anything too special. I get so excited doing the same thing every month or so – going out for a walk and a little shopping, generally – that meeting up with a friend is a big deal.  As I said above, what makes something a big deal is going to be different for every person and every circumstance.  But compounding new things (“This is the first time I’ve gone out in three months, and I’ve got a new coat, and I’m meeting a friend, and we’re doing karaoke”) seems to make the gender fog worse. I set goals and limits ahead of time.  These may not be set in stone forever, but if I can say, “I’m going to go to the bar and have two drinks and then go home,” or “I’m going to spend no more than a hundred dollars on clothes,” it helps to keep things in perspective. I try not to deny myself.  Setting limits is good, but in my experience, one of the worst things for gender fog is the feeling that I’ve been restraining myself and keeping myself from doing whatever it might be.  When I finally get a chance to do that thing, it releases my inner toddler, who does the thing as long and hard as she can.  So I try to find a way to keep that kid happy. I try not to plan too far in advance.  The longer the time between the decision and the event, the longer the fog lasts.  A major mistake this past time was deciding on Saturday that I would be going out the following Thursday.  In the past, if I decided just a day in advance that meant only one sleepless night.  If I can swing it, a spontaneous same-day decision is ideal. I warn my loved ones.  When I tell my wife I’m planning to go out, she knows that there will be a while when I’ll be distracted, and a time when I will be self-centered.  She knows not to take anything too seriously at that point.  It’s only fair. I’m prepared to back out.  In the past I’ve changed my plans because I realized that things were getting too intense.  I went out by myself instead of with friends, or I wore something a bit less sexy and revealing, or lower heels.  Sometimes I just cancelled the thing altogether, or went in guy mode, and went out later when I could do it at shorter notice.  My friends have always been cool with it. I’m aware of the gender fog.  I’ve been through this before, and I know that my judgment is not at its best.  As Slartibartfast said, “Do not agree to buy anything at this point.”  I do, in fact, buy things, but I try to stay within my preset spending limit, and I generally succeed.  I try to never, ever, take major risks, or make any major irreversible life decisions while in the fog.  Sometimes I just tell myself, “Oh, I’ll decide that next week,” and then I usually wind up saying, “What was I thinking?”  So those are some of the things I do to deal with gender fog.  I’d be interested to hear what your experiences with gender fog are, and if you’ve come up with any strategies that I didn’t mention here!
Page 7 – Trans Blog