We still exist!
Mon, 12 May 2014 05:15:45 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/05/12/we-still-exist/
Allies Articles Categorization General News Media Personal news The closet 
I had some doubts that a drag queen could do justice to the story of Casa Susanna, but I should have known better than to doubt Harvey Fierstein.  He is, really, one of us and a gifted, sensitive storyteller, as I should have known after watching Torch Song Trilogy.  The actors assembled for Casa Valentina may not be transvestites, but they are seasoned professionals, and they captured the reality of our lives (including the gender fog).  I recognized a bit of myself in every one of the transvestites, and was reminded of many others I’ve met at various gatherings.  It’s up for three Tony Awards: Best Play, Featured Actor (Reed Birney) and Featured Actress (Mare Winningham, who as Rita expertly draws out the ironies and contradictions in the feelings of the transvestites around her). As I told Reed Birney, it is hugely important that he and the rest of the cast are doing such a great job telling our history.  Thanks to my friend Alice for giving me a chance to meet him!Anyone who has any interest in transgender issues should see this play.  Fierstein tells about a critical point in our history that reverberates today, culminating in a great line from the character of Charlotte (Reed Birney), a stand-in for Virginia Prince: “Fifty years from now, when homosexuals are still scuttling about as the back-alley vermin of society, cross-dressing will be as everyday as cigarette smoking.” The irony, of course, is that it is us transvestites who are still scuttling about, while homosexuals are more everyday than cigarette smoking.  We took pains to distance ourselves from gay men, and in particular drag queens, and look what that got us.  We distanced ourselves from “sex-changers” and eventually “transgenderists,” as Prince came to call herself, as well.  Now we’re still in the closet, while they gain more acceptance every year. The one thing I really want to add is that we do still exist.  From reading the reviews of the play and commentary inspired by it, you might think that a black hole swallowed us all up in 1963, with our bouffant wigs.  The one exception is Playbill, which quotes Fierstein: “What grabbed me was: Why did they get cut out of our world? Why aren’t they part of our struggle? We get rights. They don’t.” I had read some of the reviews before I went.  I told the bus driver I was going to see Casa Valentina, and he mentioned he had heard good things about A Raisin in the Sun.  Later in the conversation I told him, “Imagine if people were talking about A Raisin in the Sun as though black people only existed back in 1961?” No, we do still exist, and the vast majority of us are still deep in the closet.  And here’s where you come in.  You can help us to come out.  You can make a safe space for us. Chances are that someone you know is a closeted transvestite.  When I came out of the closet, it was a huge relief to hear people say things like this:  It’s okay if you wear women’s clothes. It’s okay whether you like men or you don’t. It’s okay whether you believe you’re really a woman or you don’t. I won’t laugh at you. I won’t fire you. I won’t kick you out. I won’t leave you. I’ll still love you.  It would have been even better if they had said those things before I came out.  Maybe you can say them, for your friends and family and employees and tenants and neighbors to hear.  Maybe if enough people say them, we won’t feel so afraid any more.
Page 8 – Trans Blog