The times when you don’t want gender fog
Fri, 09 May 2014 00:07:11 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/05/08/the-times-when-you-dont-want-gender-fog/
Articles Feelings Gender fog Personal news 
Tomorrow I have a chance to wear a great dress I picked up at a thrift store last year, but I’m not going to do it.  The problem is that my students need me to have a clear head tomorrow, and just thinking about wearing the dress makes it hard for me to think clearly about anything else. The dress is really pretty: a black cotton-silk wrap with a full mid-calf skirt and flower prints along the hem.  When I bought it I didn’t expect to have many occasions to wear it, but the price couldn’t be beat.  Then my friend Alice invited me to go see “Casa Valentina,” and I can’t think of a more appropriate place to wear it. Unfortunately, my final exam is scheduled for tomorrow afternoon.  Even though this was the first class I’ve come out to and they’ve been cool about it, I don’t think it’s the time for me to wear something so dramatic. They need to concentrate. I wasn’t seriously thinking of wearing the dress to class; my actual plan was to go to my office downtown and change there, but that would mean carrying a lot of bulky clothes and shoes around with me in addition to the exam papers and my tablet.  So I had thought of bringing the clothes to my office today. The thing is that I need to concentrate too.  Supervising an exam is not that demanding, but I do need to pick up the exams, be on the lookout for any foul play, and answer student questions.  I also need to be able to think clearly afterwards, so that I grade the exams fairly and speedily.  And for all that I need to not be gender-fogged and I need to be reasonably well rested. As I started to think about packing a bag, I felt the rush of gender fog hit me.  I was excited and a bit jittery, and I had a hard time thinking about anything else I had planned for the day.  I decided that if I did wear a dress to the play, I wouldn’t plan it out over two days.  And still, my thoughts kept coming back to the play, and every time I felt the same rush.  I’m feeling it now as I write this. This is just not a good week to have gender fog.  Hopefully I’ll have a chance for a less exciting outing soon.  Maybe I’ll even get a chance to wear that dress some time, and maybe I’ll be able to manage it so that the gender fog isn’t overwhelming.  But this week I need to get work done, so I’ve decided not to wear it tomorrow.  And that’s okay.
Page 8 – Trans Blog