Four transgender paths
Wed, 23 Apr 2014 03:33:40 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/04/22/four-transgender-paths/
Actions Articles Categorization The closet 
I’ve written before about how important it is to separate transgender feelings and beliefs from the actions we take in response to those feelings and beliefs.  Some of these actions are spontaneous and impulsive, but many are deliberate and goal-oriented.  Everyone’s trans journey is individual, but I think there are four main paths that people take. The best-known path is that of out transition, followed by celebrities like Laverne Cox and Chaz Bono.  This path leads to the goal of a different social gender classification, and also social classification as transgender.  It involves actions to transition, like body modifications and legal gender changes, and also actions to be or remain out, like declarations of intent to transition or disclosure of past transition. The second path is the closet, which may not seem like an active path.  It leads to maintaining the gender that was assigned at birth, as well as a social classification as “normal” – not trans, and usually not gay.  But people who choose the closet actually have to do a lot to maintain their “normal” status: joining secret clubs, constructing elaborate stories to explain their shaved bodies or trips to Provincetown, building literal hiding places for their clothing. A third path is stealth transition, which aims for a new social gender classification but to keep the status of “normal” and not transgender, and involves the actions of transition plus those of the closet. The fourth path is the one I have chosen.  I reject repression, and I have found that I do not need the closet, but I have also decided that transition is not for me.  My goal is to be socially classified as transgender, or maybe a transvestite, but not to permanently change the way that others see my gender.  The only actions that I need for this goal are the “eternal coming out” – because even though I put up a web site in 1996, not everyone has read it, so I need to keep letting people know.  And this path has worked very well for me.  The vast majority of the stress that I felt as a teenager in the closet went away as I accepted myself and came out. I know that I’m fortunate to be able to follow this path, through the acceptance of my family, friends, co-workers and customers.  Some people choose the closet, and others truly have no choice. You don’t hear a lot about those of us on the fourth path.  It’s a bit harder and lonelier than I thought it would be when I chose it back in 1996.  But it’s here.  It’s not repression, and it’s not transition.  It’s another way of dealing with the trans feelings, and it might work for you.  Please respect it.
Page 8 – Trans Blog