Feelings, beliefs and actions III
Tue, 01 Apr 2014 04:27:34 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/03/31/feelings-beliefs-and-actions-iii/
Articles Beliefs Categorization Feelings 
Recently I wrote that most of us under the “transgender umbrella” – transvestites, transsexuals, genderqueer, non-binary, drag queens, butch lesbians and all the others – all feel either gender dysphoria or transgender desire, or both.  Our interpretations of these feelings may be different.  But more importantly, there are a wide variety of possible actions in response to those feelings, and none of those actions are more automatic or necessary than any other. A lot of us feel a desire to be a particular gender.  Whether we see the goal as changing our gender or others’ perceptions of it, the feeling is similar.  We also feel a desire to escape a gender, whether or not we see it as our true gender.  Not all of us feel both feelings, we don’t all feel them to the same degree, and the feelings are not constant for any of us.  Most of us, to one degree or another, feel conflicting desires to remain in or return to another gender, or discomfort with our target gender. There is also a difference in beliefs, and how these beliefs inform our interpretations of our trans feelings.  Some trans people believe that they are and have always been, innately and invisibly, the “other” gender.  Others believe that they are simply “expressing their feminine side,” or “performing female masculinity.”  Some believe they are and have always been genderfluid or bigender.  Some believe that “true trans people” exist, but that they are not among them, despite their feelings.  Some are skeptical of all these claims about invisible essences. The biggest differences lie in what we do about those feelings.  Some transgender actions are public: being visibly trans or talking about being trans in public spaces or in the media.  Some involve interacting with the public, but more quietly: social or legal transition, public crossdressing, ambiguous gender presentation. Some trans actions are more personal, although they can affect our presentation in public: hormones, surgery and soft body mods.  Some can be private, like private crossdressing, underdressing, secret  fantasies or even doing nothing. Some of these actions are irreversible and involve a permanent commitment.  Some are reversible with difficulty.  Some are reversible with time, and some are easily reversible.  In many ways, doing nothing has consequences over time. I’ve seen a lot of people on Tumblr and Reddit asking, “Am I trans?”  Someone half-jokingly responded that if you ask the question, you’re trans.  And I responded that the real question is what you do about it.  As Jamison Green said, “there is NOT one way to be trans.”  There is no one set of actions that all FTM trans people take, and no one set for all MTF people. Transgender actions, after all, are a means to an end.  That end is making us more comfortable with our transgender feelings, relieving our discomfort with the gender that we live in and our longing to be another gender.  Of course one way of doing that is to live, as much as we can, as the gender we long to be.  But it is not the only way. Which is the right path, the right set of transgender actions?  Nobody really knows for sure.  The decision is easiest if you know you’re either in the “transition or die” group or the “transition and die” group – where you would commit suicide if you transitioned, or if you didn’t.  Those in the “transition or be miserable” or the “transition and be miserable” group can be fairly sure of themselves – to the extent they know whether they’re in one of those groups!  Those of us in the “transition optional” group will just have to muddle along, trying one thing or another, seeing what seems to work for other people and what doesn’t seem to work.  But it’s important to keep in mind that our choices, our transgender actions, don’t necessarily say anything about what we Really Are Inside, or what our True Destiny Is.
Page 9 – Trans Blog