Skepticism, faith and fearmongering
Thu, 30 Jan 2014 05:32:38 +0000
https://transblog.grieve-smith.com/2014/01/30/skepticism-faith-and-fearmongering/
Articles Bathrooms Beliefs General News Media 
I’m frustrated.  I just put together a draft post about how it’s hard for me, as a trans person who tries to be skeptical, to believe in gender identity. Now, television psychiatrist Dr. Keith Ablow has written that he doesn’t believe in gender identity, and uses that in an argument that children shouldn’t be allowed to choose the gender of the bathroom they use.  And then professional troll Bryan J Fischer picks up on it, citing “the truth that we find in the Scriptures.”  Great.  Well, let me deal with these guys first. Screen capture by Media MattersThere’s not much to say about Fischer.  Despite centuries of trying, nobody’s yet found scientific proof of the existence of God, or Satan, or the “truth” of the Bible, or the effectiveness of prayer.  If you’re going to believe in those, you might as well believe in gender identity, the True Self, the Authentic You, and the Two Spirits.  Or not. Ablow (who in happier days provided a national platform for Betty Crow to declare her transition) has an argument that’s a bit more challenging because it’s not so obviously faith-based.  Yet, right at the point where he begins to challenge bathroom rights, he admits that “data is sorely lacking” to support the idea that if kids are exposed to other kids with female anatomy who are treated like boys it will “do harm to their own developing sense of self.”  And yet he feels that the possibility is so strong that we need to protect kids from it. Later he claims, with absolutely no supporting argument, that he doesn’t see “anything but toxicity from the notion of a person with female anatomy feeling free to use the urinal in the boys’ rest room while a boy stands next to her and uses one, too,” and warns that bathroom rights will create “completely unnecessary anxiety related to whether they should be doing some sort of emotional inventory to determine whether they’re really going to turn into men, once and for all, or find out they’ve been suppressing the truth that they’re actually women.” There is a coherent argument in the piece: that it is a lie to say that the question of gender identity is settled to the point where we can simply take someone’s word about what their gender is.  So far, that’s a solid skeptical observation: the whole business with uterine hormone baths and the bed of the stria terminalis is pretty shaky science, but trans dogmatists claim that it’s The Established Truth.  It’s pretty strong to say it’s a lie; it’s more like wishful thinking. Now, it is this “lie” that Ablow claims will harm the children’s sense of self more than the gender stuff.  But if you think about it, that’s a really weird idea.  Kids are constantly being lied to by adults about everything from the Easter Bunny to Moses parting the Red Sea.  Did I miss the editorial where Ablow denounced the threat to kids’ sense of self posed by the myth of hairy palms?  Where did he call for the impeachment of President Bush for “a powerful, devious and pathological way to weaken them by making them question their sense of safety, security and certainty about anything and everything” – this myth of the War on Terror? It’s pretty clear that this argument about “a lie that can steal their ability to trust adults” is bullshit.  Ablow doesn’t actually believe that adults lying to kids is that big a threat.  His skepticism about trans dogma is just a fig leaf for his true concerns (completely unsupported by any evidence) that kids will catch the trans from their classmates. A true skeptic who was genuinely concerned about this issue might call for a temporary moratorium on bathroom rights, but would want to see the issue explored as soon as possible.  After all, it’s obvious that the kids who want to live as the other gender aren’t being well served by the current system.  It’s a testable hypothesis, this idea that kids can catch the trans by being around other kids whose non-normative gender expression is tolerated by authority figures.  You might expect that a freethinker like Dr. Keith would want to investigate this hypothesis.  For some reason I’m skeptical.
Page 10 – Trans Blog