{"title": "Name and Gender Documentation in Schools", "date": "Mon, 25 Aug 2014 21:42:26 +0000", "link": "https://darlenetandogenderblog.com/2014/08/25/name-and-pronoun-documentation-in-schools/", "tags": ["Education", "Legal/Policy", "Parenting gender variant youth", "Resources", "Transgender Youth", "gender transition", "legal name and gender change", "name gender marker documentation schools", "school policies for transgender children", "transgender children school"], "text": "It\u2019s that time of year\u2026 school is starting or is about to start! If you have a transgender child or teen, it\u2019s time to be discussing with the school what name and gender marker is going to be on the rosters, computer system, and \u201cPower School\u201d fields if the school uses it. Only those close to transgender children and teens realize the distress that having their birth name and/or gender marker on school paperwork can cause. I\u2019ve seen the panic in their eyes firsthand. They are often petrified of having their peers learn their birth name. They are worried about being \u201couted\u201d. Every time they log into the computer system at school, every time attendance is called (especially in the beginning of school or by every single substitute teacher), every time a schedule or report card is passed out, even sometimes buying lunch and having their birth name and gender pop up on the computer letting them into the cafeteria\u2026 I can only imagine the tension and anxiety every single one of these instances brings up for them. This is an unnecessary stressor for these kids and we all need to do our part to be educated and speak up about this issue. The following is an excerpt from Guidance for Massachusetts Public Schools: Creating a Safe and Supportive School Environment; Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity: \u201cThe 2011 National School Climate Survey by the Gay, Lesbian & Straight Education Network (GLSEN), found that 75.4% of transgender students had been verbally harassed in the previous year, 32.1% had been physically harassed, and 16.8% had been physically assaulted. Educators play an essential role in advocating for the well-being of these students and creating a school culture that supports them.\u201d I believe changing the documentation that circulates around school and on attendance rosters is a crucial part of creating a school culture that supports transgender and gender nonconforming youth. I recently learned at the Gender Spectrum conference that the school is only legally required to keep the legal birth name and gender marker somewhere in the permanent file, but they can change EVERYTHING ELSE to the preferred name and gender before a legal change. Before spreading the word, I did a little research on this topic to back up this claim. The following quote is from the California Safe Schools Coalition Model School District Policy Regarding Transgender and Gender Nonconforming Students: \u201cOfficial Records The District is required to maintain a mandatory permanent pupil record (\u201cofficial record\u201d) that includes a student\u2019s legal name and legal gender. However, the District\u00a0is not required to use a student\u2019s legal name and gender on other school records or\u00a0documents. The District will change a student\u2019s official record to reflect a change in legal name or legal gender upon receipt of documentation that such change has been made pursuant to a court order. In situations where school staff or administrators are required by law to use or to report a transgender student\u2019s legal name or gender, such as for purposes of standardized testing, school staff and administrators shall adopt practices to avoid the inadvertent disclosure of such confidential information. Names/Pronouns A student has the right to be addressed by a name and pronoun that corresponds to\u00a0the student\u2019s gender identity. A court-ordered name or gender change is not required, and the student need not change his or her official records. The intentional or persistent refusal to respect a student\u2019s gender identity (for example, intentionally referring to the student by a name or pronoun that does not correspond to the student\u2019s gender identity) is a violation of this policy.\u201d The following are excerpts from California School Boards Association (CSBA)\u2019s \u201cFinal Guidance: AB1266, Transgender and Gender Nonconforming Students, Privacy, Programs, Activities and Facilities\u201c: \u201cUpon request, districts should prepare data systems to list a transgender or gender nonconforming student by his or her preferred name and gender.\u201d \u201cPrivacy Rights of Transgender or Gender Nonconforming Student  A student\u2019s decision to inform the district that his or her gender identity differs from his or her biological gender is extremely personal and private. In addition, transgender and gender nonconforming students may face bullying and harassment as a result of other students or staff not understanding or tolerating the public representations of their gender identity. At the same time, the decision may potentially involve very public components if, for example, the student starts to go by a different name. Despite this potential for public awareness, districts are still legally responsible to maintain the students privacy according to the students wishes.\u201d The following is an excerpt from Know Your Rights \u2013 Transgender People and the Law;\u00a0Name Change and Identity Documents:\u00a0 \u201cCan a person change his or her name to reflect his or her gender identity? Yes. In some states [and California is one of those states], through what is called \u201ccommon law name change,\u201d people may change their name simply by using the new name in everyday interactions. It is free and easy, but does not create the kind of solid paper trail needed to change identity documents.\u201d If you are interested in pursuing the legal name and gender change, know it takes at least 6 weeks to go through. Those of you who reside in San Diego can find the packet here. \u00a0Click here for the Transgender Law Center\u2019s comprehensive page with links to all forms needed. For those of you not in San Diego, simply Google your county and \u201cname and gender change\u201d. PLEASE NOTE, DUE TO AB1121, YOU NO LONGER HAVE TO PUBLISH ANYTHING IN THE NEWSPAPER. If the court is unaware of this, educate them. Filing the packet costs $435 (at least in San Diego), but the fee can be waived based on low income. (Ask for the \u201cIn Forma Pauperis\u201c.) Here is the Transgender Law Center\u2019s awesome resource that includes UPDATED information on changing name, gender, etc. If you are interested in pursuing a name and gender change, start on page 9. If you ONLY need to change your child\u2019s gender marker (keeping birth name), and your child was born in California: click here. Any other tips from those who have been down this road greatly appreciated! Youth (minor) name and gender change sample packet HERE:\u00a0minornamegenderchange Adult name and gender change sample packet HERE:\u00a0adultnamegenderchange", "feedtitle": "Page 2 \u2013 Gender Blog by Darlene Tando, LCSW"}