{"title": "The Catalyst: When Being Transgender is Brought Into Conscious Awareness", "date": "Tue, 18 Aug 2015 04:53:19 +0000", "link": "https://darlenetandogenderblog.com/2015/08/17/the-catalyst-when-being-transgender-is-brought-into-conscious-awareness/", "tags": ["For family members of Trans* individuals", "Parenting gender variant youth", "Transgender Youth", "coming out", "gender identity", "transgender awareness", "transgender child", "transgender teen"], "text": "Say you\u2019re visiting a foreign city and you\u2019ve been sightseeing all day. So many things to do and see, you\u2019ve been going nonstop. Suddenly you see a menu hanging outside the door of a restaurant with a picture of the most delicious looking pasta you\u2019ve ever seen. Suddenly aware of how hungry you are, you exclaim to your companion, \u201cI\u2019m STARVING!!\u201d The two of you quickly agree to go inside the restaurant for a meal and begin pouring over the menu to see what other options are available. Despite the common phrase, \u201cStop talking about that! You\u2019re making me hungry!\u201d, nothing but time and lack of food can actually make someone hungry. Did the picture on the menu actually create the existence of hunger? No, of course not. You were hungry because you had been active and had not eaten in a while. The menu simply made you aware of your hunger; it was the catalyst. Such is the same with anything that sparks a transgender person\u2019s \u201cAHA\u201d moment. Unless the person is someone who was insistent about their gender identity from early childhood, many individuals can name what it was that brought their being transgender into conscious awareness. For some, this is a person; either the person understands about gender identity and could explain it to them in a way that made sense, or the person had experience themselves with gender nonconformity. Often times this person will be significant to the transgender individual\u2019s journey because of the help they provided in coming to understand themselves. Sadly, for some loved ones the person who was the catalyst becomes the person who is blamed for influencing the transgender individual. However, no one becomes transgender just because their friend is or because someone explains the notion of being transgender. One is either transgender or not; nothing another person can say or do can change it. I will say that another person can influence the journey, or the transition, of the transgender individual. Influences by other people can either speed up or slow down the transition process. However, the transition is more an intervention to the state of being transgender and is not necessarily a good thing to be avoided. Read more about the separation of these two concepts in my blog post \u201cWhat Are You Going to Do About it?\u201d Other means by which someone may be triggered into understanding themselves and their true gender identity are often mainstream media, books, and of course, the internet. I\u2019ve heard some parents lament the existence of the internet, feeling certain if it did not exist their child would never have learned about this and would therefore not be transgender. I have to gently remind them that their child would still be transgender, but they\u00a0may not be consciously aware of it or know what options are available for it until much later. (Again, this is not necessarily a good thing. For those who feel the need to transition, early medical intervention\u00a0can be very beneficial. For those who identify as nonbinary or under the trans* umbrella, they may come to understand their gender identity and how to ask others to respect it much earlier than they might otherwise have.) A catalyst is not causal; it does not cause the existence of something. It simply allows for awareness that something exists. In many ways, the catalyst has an extremely important job and is an essential part of the process. Just as that menu was the catalyst to help you recognize (and do something about) your hunger before you were collapsing from low blood sugar in the middle of a foreign town square, such is the case with something triggering awareness of being transgender. Transgender people may be grateful to the person or thing that brought this into their conscious awareness; maybe someday their loved ones will be too. Do you think a catalyst can be causal? If you are transgender, do you remember your catalyst? What was it?", "feedtitle": "Gender Blog by Darlene Tando, LCSW"}