Ask Hannah!
Fri, 30 Sep 2016 01:59:46 +0000
https://hannahmcknight.org/2016/09/30/ask-hannah-3/
Uncategorized Ask Hannah Shopping 
I love reading about your adventures and experiences.  You say that you think you are too tall to pass in public.  Would you tell me how tall you are without shoes, & then how tall of a heel that you wear?   The reason that I ask is that I am 6ft 4 in. barefoot, I wear 2 1/2 inch heels, as that is the lowest heel that I am able to find in a size 17 women’s shoe.  Flats do not seem to be available in that size. I don’t think anyone is too tall to pass.  I don’t think anyone is too…anything to pass in public.  The only person’s opinion about whether or not you’re beautiful is your own.  What do you care if the guy you walked by at the store doesn’t like your look?  It doesn’t affect you.  You’ll never please everyone, so focus on making yourself happy.  I don’t think you can have standards as to what one should look like to look like a woman because then we have expectations on what a cis-woman “should” look like.  Have you ever looked at a cis-woman and thought she was too tall to look like a woman?  Every time I think I am the tallest girl in the mall, I see a girl taller than I am. I say this because I’d like to do my part in moving our community away from the need to “pass” and helping others really examine why passing is a myth and ultimately an unrealistic expectation and holding us back.  I don’t know a single cis-woman who worries that she is not pretty enough or short enough or not girlish enough to “pass” as a woman in public.  I’ve never heard a cis-woman say that she is too tall and people won’t know she’s a girl.  Cis-women know that all women are different and have different bodies and are different sizes.  T-girls are not any different. I digress.  I am a little over 6 feet tall and I wear everything from flats (no, I’m kidding, I don’t wear flats) to five inch stilettos.  I usually leave the stilettos at home and wear a 2 or a 3 inch heel when I go out. I am not trying to pass or blend in by wearing the shorter heel, I dress and wear what I wear based on what is appropriate to where I am going.  A tight mini dress and sky high heels are perfect for a club but you’ll stand out at Target. So, mall outfits…   These, not so much.   I am surprised you’re having trouble finding flats in that size.  Have you tried visiting this site?  I think you’ll have better luck online. I hope this helps! Love, Hannah
Page 13 – Hannah McKnight