{"title": "Ask Hannah!", "date": "Fri, 13 Oct 2017 01:48:06 +0000", "link": "https://hannahmcknight.org/2017/10/13/ask-hannah-16/", "tags": ["Uncategorized", "activism", "Ask Hannah"], "text": "Do they have books on transgender, crossdressers rights when we go out on the town? Before I jump into this, please visit and bookmark these two links that provide answers and information to frequently asked questions regarding the laws and rights of transgender individuals: ACLU Human Rights Campaign I\u2019m sure there are books, however, with how frequently the laws can change, a book will eventually become outdated.\u00a0 As far as I know, there aren\u2019t any states that says it is illegal to be transgender.\u00a0 But that doesn\u2019t mean we don\u2019t have a long time to go.\u00a0 As of today, it is legal to fire someone on the basis for being transgender in over half of the states in the country.\u00a0 According to the Human Rights Campaign:  Right now in 32 states there is no state law protecting transgender people from being fired for being who they are. Only 18 states (CA, CO, CT, DE, HI, IL, IA, MA, ME, MD \u2014 effective Oct. 2014, MN, NJ, NM, NV, OR, RI, VT and WA) and D.C. currently prohibit discrimination based on gender identity. We all have rights, but each day we hear of someone\u2019s basic civil rights being violated.\u00a0 Discrimination based on gender and race will likely always exist.\u00a0 You have the right to be treated as a human being, but that doesn\u2019t mean everyone will respect you and interact with you in the way you deserve, unfortunately. You should also be aware of what the laws in your state are when it comes to using the restroom that align with your gender identity.\u00a0 According to the ACLU: There\u2019s no clear answer here because very few courts have considered this question and the results have been mixed. In two recent positive decisions, an administrative agency in Colorado in 2013 and the Maine Supreme Court in 2014 both ruled that under those states\u2019 gender identity discrimination laws, transgender girls had the right to use girls\u2019 restrooms at their public schools. On the other hand, a 2001 Minnesota Supreme Court decision found that even a law prohibiting gender identity discrimination didn\u2019t necessarily protect a transgender woman\u2019s right to use the women\u2019s restroom at work. And a federal appeals court in 2007 upheld the Utah Transit Authority\u2019s decision to fire a transgender bus driver, based on a claim that her employer could be sued for her use of women\u2019s public restrooms along her bus route. In a non-workplace context, a New York appeals court ruled in 2005 that it wasn\u2019t sex discrimination for a building owner to prevent transgender people from using gender identity-appropriate restrooms in a building where several businesses shared restrooms. Authorities in some jurisdictions (e.g., Colorado, Iowa, Oregon, Washington State, San Francisco, New York City, and the District of Columbia), however, have specifically said that denying transgender people the right to use a gender identity-appropriate restroom violates their nondiscrimination laws. Some jurisdictions (e.g., Iowa, San Francisco, and D.C.) go farther and make clear that transgender people can\u2019t be required to prove their gender to gain access to a public restroom, unless everyone has to show ID to use that restroom. Other jurisdictions (e.g., Chicago) continue to allow businesses to decide whether a transgender patron may access men\u2019s or women\u2019s restrooms based on the gender on their ID, which may or may not reflect accurately the person\u2019s gender identity. Many businesses, universities, and other public places are installing single stall, gender-neutral restrooms, which alleviate many of the difficulties that transgender people experience when seeking safe restroom access. Some cities (such as Austin, Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., and West Hollywood) have local laws that require single-stall public restrooms to be labeled as unisex. While this is often a useful step towards addressing the concerns of transgender people and others, the ACLU believes that transgender people should have the right to use restrooms that match their gender identity rather than being restricted to only using gender-neutral ones. My advice is to use a gender neutral bathroom if possible.\u00a0 There is also an app and website called Refugee Restroom that, according to their website: REFUGE is a web application that seeks to provide safe restroom access for transgender, intersex, and gender nonconforming individuals. When the Safe2Pee website passed out of functionality it left a hole in our hearts. REFUGE picks up the torch where Safe2Pee left off and makes the valuable resource available to those who find themselves in need of a place to pee safely once again. Users can search for restrooms by proximity to a search location, add new restroom listings, as well as comment and rate existing listings. We seek to create a community focused not only on finding existing safe restroom access but also looking forward and participating in restroom advocacy for transgender, intersex, and gender nonconforming folk. Be aware of your rights.\u00a0 Be safe. Love, Hannah", "feedtitle": "Page 3 \u2013 Hannah McKnight"}