Ask Hannah!
Thu, 17 Aug 2017 01:17:31 +0000
https://hannahmcknight.org/2017/08/17/ask-hannah-11/
Uncategorized Ask Hannah crossdressing Shopping transgender 
I am a beginner crossdresser.  Please tell me how to chose my dresses. Creating your wardrobe is one of the most fun and expensive things you’ll ever do.  It will be even more expensive if you don’t purchase clothing that is the right size.  It’s important that you know your measurements and understand that the size on the tag doesn’t mean very much as each designer and store can have a different meaning of what a size is. So, how do you find your measurements? Find a measuring tape (not the tool kit kind, the ribbon kind) and take your measurements for different parts of your body: -Waist measured at your belly button -Bust measured at nipple height with or without forms/padding -Chest measurement taken just under pectoral muscle (2 to 3 inches below nipple)  I have a section on my blog that goes into more detail about shopping and sizing.  Read that section here. The internet makes it very convenient to purchase and ultimately return clothing if it doesn’t fit.   It’s important you refer to the size charts on the store’s site in order to choose the right items.  I found a really cute dress on Amazon recently, but I know from experience to look at the size chart. Here’s a typical screenshot from Amazon:  Under the price, you can choose the size you’d like, as well as view a size chart.  This is a standard Amazon size chart and is rarely relevant.        I ignore this.  Usually on the left side of the screen, among the alternate views, you’ll see the manufacturer’s size chart and will vary from dress to dress.  This is usually more accurate.  I also will scroll to the bottom of the page and read the customer questions and reviews to see other shopper’s opinions.  I normally wear a size 12 or a large (unless it’s stretchy, then I go down to a 10), but according to this chart I am a size XL. Taking a few moments to do you research will save you time and money. Happy shopping! Love, Hannah
Page 5 – Hannah McKnight