Baby, it’s, Like, Really Cold Outside
Sun, 14 Jan 2018 13:11:37 +0000
https://hannahmcknight.org/2018/01/14/baby-its-like-really-cold-outside/
Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls 
It was a very, very cold evening last night, but that didn’t stop the MN T-Girls from our monthly adventure! I had spent the afternoon doing some shopping and meeting a friend for coffee, and by the time I met up with the other t-girls temperatures were a few degrees below zero.  Did sub-zero temperatures and icy sidewalks stop me from wearing a dress with a hemline above the knee and four inch stilettos? I think you know the answer to that. For our first outing of 2018, we met at The Townhouse, Saint Paul’s oldest GLBTQA nightclub.  There were about two dozen of us who braved weather that was actively trying to kill us.  We had some drinks, some food, chatted about the holidays, met new friends and a lot of girl talk.  It was a nice way to start the year.  Unfortunately I didn’t get any good photos of the girls but everyone looked fabulous and was dressed a lot more practical than I was. As the MN T-Girls enters our fifth year, I’ve been thinking a lot about how far the group has progressed and what the future holds for us.  I am constantly thinking about what we’ll do next, whether it’s shopping and makeup lessons or events built around activism.  I try to balance our events that appeal to all members of the group, whether it’s an event at The Townhouse, which tends to be one of the first places a t-girl goes when we leave the house for the first time to something bigger and more public to appeal to those of us who have been out in the real world for years and are comfortable anywhere. Most of the events for 2018 are already planned out and they range from attending Pride events around the state to makeup demonstrations to photo shoots to holiday parties, but I am always thinking about what we can do. It is a lot of work planning and coordinating these events and I tell the girls I will always continue to do so as long as the girls show up. I look forward to what the year brings! Love, Hannah
Hannah McKnight