was i ever “really trans”?
Tue, 03 Oct 2017 02:01:06 +0000
https://b0rnwr0ng.wordpress.com/2017/10/03/was-i-ever-really-trans/
Uncategorized 
Was I ever really trans? This depends how you define trans. For the purpose of this post, let’s try two common ones. The first one is the definition that was more or less common usage within the transgender communities I participated in. In this community, “transgender” was used to describe anyone who identified as trans. It was also used to describe anyone (celebrities, historical figures, fictional characters, etc) who hadn’t explicitly stated they were not trans, as long as they “seemed trans”, a totally subjective matter (although gender non-conforming people “seemed trans” an awful lot more often). The other is the medical definition. From the DSM-V, quoted from crashchaoscat’s helpful post with the exact text- “Gender dysphoria refers to the distress that may accompany the incongruence between one’s experienced or expressed gender and one’s assigned gender.” I was trans, as much as anybody else ever was. I identified as trans and had diagnosed dysphoria. The feelings that were diagnosed that way absolutely did exist, and continue to exist, although I understand them differently now. I sought and obtained legal and medical transition measures. I was seen by a half dozen different mental or physical health professionals in a context relevant to my transition, all of whom were convinced I was transgender. There is no trait I had that does not also exist in FTMs who did not stop transition or report negative outcomes. I don’t describe myself as trans anymore, but by some definitions, I could still be described that way by others- and still often am! People who have been introduced to me as a woman still ask me if I’m trans. Strangers online say that I’m just repressing my true transgender self. Some legal and social complications due to legal identification forms perceived (by oneself and/or by others) as incongruous are also held in common between many trans people and me. My passport still says male, at this time. Strangers generally assume I’m male, and are surprised by what they see as a disparate sex on my license, which I’ve changed back to female. I haven’t gotten through the paperwork to change my sex back to female with my healthcare provider; this has led to inconsistent pronouns in medical documentation I needed to obtain disability accommodations. I experience a sense of alienation from my body and often wish many of my features appear more male-typical. I cannot function normally in clothes that I feel make my body appear more obviously female, due to the amount of distress my appearance causes me under those circumstances. I am deeply upset by how female my face looks when I shave my facial hair. Despite this, the relief I got from actually making my body appear more male-typical was fleeting, and my quality of life has improved dramatically since stopping transition. The premise, “people who detransition were never trans”, is frequently assumed to be free-standing, with no defense provided. This is convenient to those who are highly invested in dismissing detransitioned women as credible witnesses to our own lives, but ignores the many, many points of similarity that tend to be held in common between those who continue transition and those who find other ways to cope. Women who detransition absolutely were trans at one time, at least according to many definitions. We all identified as trans and had a strong drive to pursue transition, in some form or another, at one point. Many of us were diagnosed officially. There is not any common trait, or set of traits, that set us all apart from those who continue transition. The belief that only those who are not “truly trans” could experience relief through strategies other than transition puts a whole lot of power in the hands of the professionals who profit daily from the current framework, wherein transition is considered the only treatment for virtually anyone motivated to seek it persistently. In contrast, the belief that there are many potentially useful strategies for handling the experiences diagnosable as dysphoria (alongside or instead of transition), many of which can be successful without any contact with mental health professionals or physicians, puts more power in the hands of individuals with those experiences. In many ways, this is analogous to the belief that someone who experiences relief without utilizing the psychiatric model of care was never really suffering, because those who are truly suffering require psychiatry to heal. Both empower doctors, at the expense of everyone experiencing direct psychological and physiological consequences from the choices those doctors make about their treatment. In both cases, it makes sense that professionals tend to be emotionally invested in a narrative where their care is the only barrier between suffering and suicide. Seeing yourself as a savior feels really good, whereas seeing yourself as someone who sometimes does totally unnecessary harm feels pretty bad. Sunk cost bias applies to doctors and therapists as much as it applies to anyone else. I understand the resistance to what myself and other detransitioned women are saying.
BORN WRONG