{"title": "Casa Valentina", "date": "Wed, 23 Apr 2014 10:04:11 +0000", "link": "https://aboyandherdog.com/2014/04/23/casa-valentina/", "tags": ["Butch Or Trans?", "authenticity", "Broadway", "butch", "Casa Valentina", "cross dressing", "genderqueer", "Harvey Fierstein", "lesbian", "lgbt", "queer", "theater", "transgender"], "text": " Donna and I went to see Casa Valentina, the new Harvey Fierstein play. We saw it in previews, so this is not a review. The play is set during a spring weekend in the 1960\u2019s, at a resort in the Catskills that caters to men who cross-dress. There once was a real place called Casa Susanna. It turns out that I have a lot in common with the guys who went there. The real life patrons of Casa Susanna; found photographs. Before I knew the words homosexual, deviant, gay, lesbian, butch, queer, or transgender, I cross-dressed. As often as I could get away with it. I did it as early as nursery school, refusing to put on a dress and insisting on wearing blue. I was a stubborn kid. I put on my brother\u2019s clothes. Including his underwear. I had a separate male persona. In cross-dressing circles there is a lot of discussion about whether the cross-dresser is transgender or an otherwise normal heterosexual guy who just likes to dress en femme. There are distinctions made between straight men who sometimes wear women\u2019s clothing and gay men who do drag. There is an organization, Tri-Ess, dedicated to providing safe spaces for heterosexual men to cross-dress. They have a\u00a0bill of rights\u00a0for both cross-dressers and their partners (wives). It is a bit of a 1960\u2019s throwback.  Casa Valentina explores what it means for each guest to have a haven, where they can dress en femme for the weekend. It shows their ambivalence at presenting male, and the pleasure and freedom they experience in dropping the pretense and letting their feminine side \u201cout\u201d in company. It is about the price of suppressing one\u2019s gender and one\u2019s sexuality; of having a secret other life. Weegee. Lesbians in NYC in 1946. It is relatively easy for me to cross-dress in my ordinary life. Butch lesbians wear men\u2019s clothing all the time. I don\u2019t think of it as drag or being en homme. I think of it as being me. It is much easier (in contemporary American culture) for women to go out in men\u2019s clothing than for men to go out in women\u2019s clothing. This was not always the case; in New York there were laws on the books that cross-dressing was illegal unless the person wore at least three pieces of gender appropriate clothing. The law was invoked when the police raided clubs or bars. It applied to both men and women, There was a time when I tried to wear women\u2019s dress pants and blouses to work. I hated it. I looked ridiculous, and I reverted to men\u2019s or at least man-tailored attire. If I always had to wear \u201creal\u201d women\u2019s clothing when I left the house, even slacks and a blouse, I would probably commit suicide. Or become a recluse. I don\u2019t think I could compartmentalize being butch into a weekend only thing. Like men who cross-dress, I have periodically tried to give up cross-dressing and go \u201cnormal\u201d, but I can\u2019t. I purged my most masculine outfits when I thought I should make an effort to find women\u2019s clothing that looked good and fit properly. I purged my most feminine clothes when I realized that I would not wear them, that I feel miserable when I think about wearing them, and that I can not expect myself to wear them. The transgender undertow repeatedly pulls me back to the masculine shore. For my own comfort I should stay there. The transgender undertow is the subject of the second half of Casa Valentina. It is increasingly hard for the main character (and owner of Casa Valentina) George/Valentina to maintain\u00a0a split life. Fortunately for me, there is no split. I no longer have a secret male persona. I may be living on the border of butch and transgender, but I am living as Jamie, no matter which way I go. Note: The play opened to mixed reviews \u2013 here is a link to the review in The\u00a0New York TImes, which I think is accurate.  ", "feedtitle": "Page 13 \u2013 A Boy and Her Dog"}