{"title": "My Mother\u2019s Obsession", "date": "Wed, 22 Jan 2014 11:37:51 +0000", "link": "https://aboyandherdog.com/2014/01/22/why-butch-lesbians-dress-like-boys/", "tags": ["Body Image and Clothing", "authenticity", "bullying", "butch", "childhood", "Gender", "genderqueer", "lesbian", "memoir", "parenting", "queer", "transgender"], "text": " I spend a lot of time thinking about how people see me and what I look like. Not because I am vain and stylish, but because my mother was obsessed with making me look like a girl. We were both unhappy with how I looked; we had different ideas on how to solve the problem. Every day I struggled to get dressed and go to school. I hated wearing skirts and dresses. I hated wearing tights. I hated wearing Mary Janes.\u00a0I hated wearing pastels, lace, bows, and anything that had elastic in the waist or a zipper in the back. I threw a lot of tantrums.\u00a0I wanted to look like a boy not a girl. I could not understand why my mother insisted on putting me in clothes I hated. By the third grade I had acquired a wardrobe of drab unadorned\u00a0dresses, and dark Oxford\u00a0shoes. While I despised these clothes, they were the least objectionable of what was available. I wore them like a prison uniform. The clothes were ugly. but innocuous enough that I could numb out in them. I refused to inhabit them. I daydreamed my way out of them. I changed as soon as I got home. I had some girl clothes I could tolerate and some hand-me-downs from my brother that I cherished. I avoided the mirror unless I was wearing clothes I felt comfortable in. My mother was determined. I refused to make any effort to look like a girl. She bullied me. I didn\u2019t budge. It was a dreary battle that went on for years. The kind of battle that makes a child sullen and stubborn. An argument that got imperceptibly meaner each time it was fought. My mother was sharp-tongued and vicious. She would yell at me and I would stand still and try to let the sound bounce off of me. I would concentrate on the syllables and ignore the meaning. Day in and day out she sniped at me. I tried not to argue back. I wanted to defend myself but when I did it backfired. It gave her more ammunition. I avoided talking to her. I did my homework. I read books. I stuffed myself with food. I pulled myself into my own thoughts. I pretended to be a boy. I watched baseball on TV. I listened to music. I killed a lot of time. Every sentence was loaded. Every conversation\u00a0ended\u00a0with raised voices or slammed doors. I thought this was how all mothers behaved in private. She pretended to be nice when there was company, but the moment they left she reverted. I did not realize that my mother\u2019s behavior was out of line until I was in my teens. I did not tag her as abusive until I was in my twenties. I thought I got what I deserved. I thought it was my fault; if I\u2019d been \u201cnormal\u201d everything would have been OK. I half believed her when she said I was over-sensitive and couldn\u2019t handle constructive criticism. I convinced myself that the solution was to go away to college. That once I got away from her I would be alright. I thought I was leaving my mother behind but I carried her with me. I did not realize how much damage had been done; that her obsessions had become my obsessions. I did not realize much how much work I had to do, and still have to do, to be free. ", "feedtitle": "Page 15 \u2013 A Boy and Her Dog"}