{"title": "Labels and Authenticity Do Not Mix", "date": "Wed, 28 Aug 2013 10:10:37 +0000", "link": "https://aboyandherdog.com/2013/08/28/butch-genderqueer-or-transgender/", "tags": ["Authenticity", "Bobby Sherman", "butch", "David Cassidy", "Gender", "genderqueer", "labels", "lesbian", "lgbt", "queer", "transgender"], "text": " Anna P. 1922, Germany When I was a five I was a tomboy. At night, I wished to wake up in the morning and be a boy. This is not unusual. It is a naturally occurring phenomenon. Some girls feel this way. Some girls feel this way so much and for so long that they manage to become someone other than a teenage girl. Someone other than an adult woman. I knew what I was not.\u00a0I\u2019ve had a difficult time accepting what I am and figuring out what to call myself. Labels and authenticity do not mix. In Kindergarten, I wouldn\u2019t play house unless I could be the daddy. I refused to play with baby dolls, or toy kitchens, or plastic vegetables. Instead, I stuck to blocks, books, puzzles, and stuffed animals. I knew what I was doing. I grew up to be a gender non-conforming Civil Engineer who reads a lot, does Ken-Ken, and plays with my dog. In second grade I developed my long term strategy. The school librarian asked me why I was only taking out boy\u2019s books. I shrugged my shoulders. I hadn\u2019t realized it was obvious. I started taking out twice as many books. For every two boy\u2019s books I took out two girl\u2019s books. Even Steven. The librarian left me alone. I only read the boy\u2019s books. Adults paid attention, but it was superficial. I could be a boy under the radar. I had to be a little less blatant and claim it didn\u2019t mean anything. I didn\u2019t have crushes on David Cassidy or Bobby Sherman. I didn\u2019t wear flavored lip gloss or paint my nails. I could avoid a lot of girly things by claiming they were stupid or boring. I had more important things to do (like develop crushes on every female teacher I ever had). I kept reading. I was a boyish and asexual teenager. Never dated. Never shaved my legs or under my arms. If anyone asked why I told them it was an unnatural and barbaric modern custom. I fell in love with Stella, broke-up with Stella, and came out as a butch lesbian at 17.\u00a0I didn\u2019t masturbate until I was over the age of consent; I had to read a book with diagrams to figure out what to do. I kept reading. I knew that I was hiding my desire to be a boy, but being a butch lesbian offered community and the prospect of being in a relationship with a woman. Being butch was as close as I could get to expressing my desire to be a boy. I knew I had a woman\u2019s body, but I also knew I desperately longed to be a boy. This is my butch experience.\u00a0This is my transgender experience. Transgender is a wildcard. It changes the game. It offers up a lot of options, some of which I am choosing (see this post on pronouns and this post on name change). The changes I am making (and not making) do not make me any more or any less transgender. My experience is that I couldn\u2019t stop wanting to be a boy, and I couldn\u2019t get used to being a woman. I am incorrigibly\u00a0gender non-conforming. I\u2019m still not sure what to call myself (butch, queer, genderqueer, bigender, trans*, transgender) even though I know who I am. Even though I knew exactly who I was when I was five. Note: The picture of Anna P. is in the public domain. She was photographed by Magnus Hirschfeld in 1922 for his book Sexual Intermediates. ", "feedtitle": "Page 17 \u2013 A Boy and Her Dog"}