{"title": "What I\u2019ve Learned From Women Who Detransitioned", "date": "Wed, 17 Aug 2016 01:58:06 +0000", "dateobj": "2016-08-17", "link": "https://aboyandherdog.com/2016/08/16/what-ive-learned-from-women-who-detransitioned/", "tags": ["Authenticity", "butch", "detransition", "ftm", "Gender", "genderqueer", "lesbian", "non-binary", "queer", "testosterone", "transgender", "Transition"], "text": " How does someone decide between living as a butch lesbian or a trans man? What if you make the wrong choice? What if neither identity feels authentic? These questions stick with me through my journey. At first, and still to some extent, I was envious of trans men who were absolutely certain they wanted to transition. Who knew they were men. Who wanted everything to happen as fast as possible. Reincarnation. To make a clean break with their past. I watched videos and read blogs. Some were too pat. Too insistent that everything was fabulous. They weren\u2019t\u00a0struggling, except to get coverage for top surgery. They proudly documented their changes on testosterone week by week. Then I watched a video about going off testosterone. They stopped because it didn\u2019t feel right. Because they didn\u2019t like how they felt on it. Each detransition story I\u2019ve heard is unique, but the unifying message is that they didn\u2019t feel authentic being a man. It felt false, they didn\u2019t recognize the face in the mirror, or they felt they\u2019d lost their soul. Some accepted they were transgender, but were closer to genderqueer or non-binary than male. Some went back to butch. Some (re)embraced being female and gender non-conforming. I don\u2019t know if it is better to transition quickly or slowly. The traditional medical-psychiatric transition is a slow one-size-fits-all process. I have too much ambivalence for the gatekeepers. Callen-Lorde uses the informed consent model. It allows me to tell the truth, do my own research, and make my own choices. I can set\u00a0my own pace. I can make my own mistakes. Some detransition stories resonate with me. I wonder what would have happened if I had gone full strength ahead with an informed consent binary transition as soon as I realized I was trans. If I had believed that transition would solve all my problems. If I had a supportive partner and a therapist encouraging me to take testosterone. I didn\u2019t go that route, so I can\u2019t know how it would have turned out, whether I would have been happy or not. I might have realized a year later, with beard scruff and a deep voice, that I\u2019d made a mistake. Instead, I meandered around trans and butch identities. I changed my name and got top surgery. I put off starting testosterone. I read transition and detransition stories the way I read warning labels on medicines. I want to know the expected effects and the potential side effects. The range of experiences, good and bad. What I\u2019ve learned, unintentionally, is to trust my judgement and go at my own pace. To listen to, but not necessarily accept, advice. To accept that I\u2019m probably not ever (never say never) going to follow the classic binary transition route and that I\u2019m just as trans no matter which route I take. To be ready for a less than optimal result; to be ready for a worst case scenario. To take full responsibility for my actions and inactions. To not place the blame on my parents, partner, therapist, doctor, or surgeon. I respect women who detransitioned\u00a0and still deal with dysphoria. Who are gender non-conforming and choose to live with all the crap that the heteronormative world throws at them.\u00a0Who live with the permanent effects of testosterone and surgery. \u00a0I am not threatened by them telling their stories. They are telling their truth. Detransition stories are \u00a0often used by politicians, clergy, and journalists as reasons for limiting access to hormones and surgery. I would rather see them used as proof that one can make mistakes and live to share them. Notes: I wrote this post after reading crashchaoscats\u2019 response to this article by Julia Serrano on Detransition, Desistance, and Disinformation. crashchaoscats also has a tumblr site and links to other detransition blogs. A heads up that many of the bloggers are radfems. The video about going off testosterone\u00a0is by Jonah Womack (bluntedfsharp) on YouTube. Jonah stopped taking testosterone but did not detransition. On a separate issue I\u2019m going on vacation to Gloucester MA, and will not be posting for two weeks. I\u2019m packing two pairs of board shorts and two rash guards for the beach. ", "feedtitle": "Page 2 \u2013 A Boy and Her Dog"}