{"title": "I Am Not My Car", "date": "Wed, 13 Apr 2016 02:08:59 +0000", "link": "https://aboyandherdog.com/2016/04/12/i-am-not-my-car/", "tags": ["Authenticity", "butch", "car trouble", "genderqueer", "lesbian", "minimalism", "New York City", "non-binary", "queer", "Subaru Outback", "transgender"], "text": " I own a sage green 2006 Subaru Outback with 84,000 miles on it. I park it on the street. In Manhattan. Last year someone keyed a big scratch in the passenger side door (maybe they didn\u2019t like our bumper stickers?). It has a lot of parking dings. I\u2019m good at finding parking spaces, but not so good at fitting in them. I\u2019m also responsible for bringing the car in for routine maintenance, and keeping the insurance, registration, and inspections up to date. I don\u2019t know much about cars. I grew up in the city and my parents never owned a car. A couple of times a year, if we were coming home late at night, my parents would splurge on a taxi. Mostly, we took the bus, or stayed in our neighborhood. I thought people who kept a car in the city were crazy. Then Donna inherited a little money from her father and used it to buy a house in the country. We got a car. I learned to drive in my thirties. Friday afternoon, I packed up enough food for a long weekend upstate and left the bags in the lobby of our apartment building. I took Gracie for a walk, and then we went to pick up the car (where I had parked it the day before after the street sweeper went by). I put Gracie in the back, slid into the driver\u2019s seat, and put the key in the ignition. The dashboard lights and the radio came on, but the car would not start. My brother knows about as much about cars as I do. His coping mechanism is to buy a shiny new Lexus SUV every three years. I wish we had grown up around cars. I wish our Dad could have taught us how to listen to a car, how to parallel park, and how to merge into oncoming traffic safely.\u00a0I wish I could have called that Dad on Friday. Instead, I called the auto repair shop I got my inspection sticker from. They said it could be the ignition switch, the starter, or the fuel pump. They told me to call AAA and get a tow. After I assured AAA that I was stuck\u00a0in a safe (albeit tight) parking spot, they told me it would be about an hour. Gracie and I waited. I called Donna and told her to bring the groceries back upstairs and put them away. Exactly an hour later, a small AAA SUV arrived and a slight goateed guy in his twenties hopped out and asked me to pop open the hood of my car. I drew a blank. I couldn\u2019t remember\u00a0where the hood release lever was. I would have let Mr. AAA find it but Gracie was jumping up and down, barking, and bearing her teeth. I finally found it on the left side under the dashboard. I thought \u201cIf I was a real guy I would have handled this better.\u201d Mr. AAA took a look, told me it was probably time for a new battery, and gave me a jump-start. I turned the key, and the engine started up. Emergency over. He told me to keep the engine running for a half hour to hold the charge. I thanked him. I called Donna, she repacked the food, and we drove off. I felt like an idiot. The truth is that if I was a guy (at least one who grew up in my family) I would have had the exact same problem. My battery didn\u2019t fail because I was assigned female at birth. Car knowledge doesn\u2019t automatically come with the testosterone or from being butch; it comes from experience and growing up in a car culture. I won\u2019t forget where the hood release is or that a battery can be low enough to keep the headlights and radio on but not start the engine. In the last twelve months I\u2019ve paid for spark plugs, new tires, a wheel alignment, new brake pads, a new gas cap, and new struts. The car is only worth between $4,000 and $5,000. A new battery won\u2019t cost more than $150, but I\u2019m starting to think about when it will make financial sense to buy another car.\u00a0I\u2019d like to milk a few more years out of this one. The guys at work tell me it is time to trade up. That I am better than a ten-year old Subaru. They tell me that it was a good starter car (this is actually my second Subaru), but I deserve something flashier. They suggest\u00a0cars that are sporty (BMW), or luxurious (Audi), or fun (Corvette). When the time comes, I\u2019ll probably replace it with another sturdy, sober, utilitarian, reliable Subaru. For all my identity issues, I don\u2019t identify with my car, or maybe I do. Notes: I like this post by Jenn Coyle \u201cYou are not your car\u201d on the dangers of being sucked into spending more on a car than you want to. To save money, I park on the street instead of in a garage (over $600/month). This means that at least two times a week I have to move my car for alternate side of street parking (street sweeping). This is a vehicular form of musical chairs, where instead of running around in a circle, you wait for the Sanitation truck to go through and then parallel park as fast as you can to claim a spot. It is a not for the faint of heart, and not something I\u2019d want to do with a brand new car. ", "feedtitle": "Page 4 \u2013 A Boy and Her Dog"}