{"title": "Sitting on the Fence", "date": "Wed, 20 May 2015 02:30:09 +0000", "link": "https://aboyandherdog.com/2015/05/19/genderqueer-non-binary-transition-long-term-relationship/", "tags": ["Butch Or Trans?", "authenticity", "butch", "genderqueer", "lesbian", "non-binary", "open heart surgery", "queer", "relationships", "testosterone", "transgender", "Transition", "true love"], "text": " Getty_Images \u00a0It is hard to lasso Androgel. Donna caught me by surprise. She said \u201cStop saying that you\u2019re not taking testosterone because I\u2019m against it. I don\u2019t want to be in that position anymore. Make up your own mind. Do whatever you want.\u201d It would be nice if Donna had said this lovingly, with the caveat that she will support me whole heartedly. That I will always be her Jamie no matter what path I take. Whether I am butch or trans. That I should do whatever I think is best for me. But that wasn\u2019t exactly what she meant. In January Donna had open heart surgery to replace a heart valve. The outcome, according to all her doctors, is excellent. The valve took, she didn\u2019t get an infection, her heart is pumping properly, her heart rhythm is good, she doesn\u2019t have atrial fibrillation.  She was taking three medications for her heart: a beta blocker, an ARB (angiotensin receptive blocker), and a blood thinner (warfarin). Both of us hate taking drugs. Drugs have side effects, rules about when and how to take them, and dietary restrictions. She\u2019s got a perpetually runny nose, a sensitive digestive system, and trouble sleeping. She wants her old life back. Carefree. Donna\u2019s cardiologist gave her the go ahead to start cardio rehab (increasingly difficult aerobics while wearing a heart monitor). She felt stronger and more like herself. One Saturday in April we went to the Egon Schiele show at the Neue Galerie, ate a late lunch at the museum\u2019s cafe, took a meandering walk across Central Park, and went to see the movie\u00a0Clouds of Sils Maria. The next day she decided to go off the beta blocker. She didn\u2019t discuss it with me. She told me she was going to do it. She told her cardiologist she didn\u2019t like the side effects of the beta blocker and wanted to see how she felt going off the drug. He offered to give her a different beta blocker, with potentially different side effects, but she wouldn\u2019t budge. I lost it outside his office. On Madison Avenue. I jumped up and down on the sidewalk and told her she was just like a schizophrenic who insists on going off their medication because they feel good. That the reason she felt good was because the medication was working.\u00a0I was furious at her for going off the drug before she completed cardio rehab. I begged her to try changing to a different drug to see if the side effects were more manageable. She said no, she wanted to do it her way. We took the subway home. I believed we had an\u00a0unspoken agreement that we were in this together. Donna believed she was autonomous. Within a week Donna felt weak and unable to do anything that required exertion. She dropped out of cardio rehab. I couldn\u2019t find my empathy. I felt helpless. Scared. Angry. I told her it wasn\u2019t fair. That I had discussed every decision about my transition with her. I waited to change my name. I waited for top surgery, I stopped thinking, or at least talking, about testosterone. She looked at me and said all that was true. I had talked it through. I had waited. She said she couldn\u2019t do what she had asked me to do. She didn\u2019t want to go through the pro\u2019s and con\u2019s with me. She didn\u2019t want to take my feelings into account. She apologized. Another week went by. She talked to her cardiologist and decided to try a different beta-blocker. She said she\u2019d discuss it with me, but make her own decisions. A week later she was feeling good enough to go back to cardio rehab. Her cardiologist told her she could get off the warfarin. She is eating kale, mangoes, and avocados again. She told me to do whatever I want. Not to wait for her consent. The rules have changed. I\u2019m still on the fence about testosterone. But this time it is my fence. Notes:\u00a0Mo Weinert wrote the series \u201cI Was a Teenage Unicorn\u201d for Original Plumbing, which you can find here.\u00a0It is part of a series of posts about Mo\u2019s decisions to get on, and then off, low dose testosterone. janitorqueer and Neutrois Nonsense also have a series of posts about their experiences on low dose testosterone. Not surprisingly, all three have different expectations and experiences with low dose T. ", "feedtitle": "Page 8 \u2013 A Boy and Her Dog"}