{"title": "The Sex Life of Sponges", "date": "Wed, 04 Feb 2015 03:31:47 +0000", "link": "https://aboyandherdog.com/2015/02/03/the-sex-life-of-butch-lesbians/", "tags": ["Authenticity", "bath accessories", "butch", "genderqueer", "lesbian", "lgbt", "non-binary", "open heart surgery", "queer", "relationships", "sponges", "transgender"], "text": " Donna is back home with me. The hospital\u00a0discharged\u00a0her eight days after open heart surgery; four nights in the ICU and four nights in the cardiac step down unit. The evening before they discharged her, the Physician\u2019s Assistant told me he\u2019d spoken with the social worker and the physical therapist and they all agreed Donna would do better at home with me than in residential rehab. Medicare is providing a visiting nurse and a visiting physical therapist. We went\u00a0home with a shower chair, a commode, a walker, a drug regimen, and an exercise plan. It caught me by surprise. The original plan was for residential rehab, and I thought I had at least two more weeks of bachelor living before Donna came home. I had some straightening up to do. Her first night back I cooked a simple dinner. We ate at our dining table, and then sat on the couch and listened to Beethoven Piano Sonatas. It was very sweet. Our new sea sponge. Donna\u2019s nurses in the step down unit gave us a lot of information and advice for a healthy recovery. Mila explained to me how to bathe Donna in the shower. She told me to use a soft sponge and clean the wound area first, keeping the incision out of the direct line of the shower spray. And to give Donna a clean towel every time she showered. I may be an oblivious butch, but I usually give my towel the sniff test before I use it, and keep reusing it until it is close to funky. I consider this part of my reduce, reuse, and recycle\u00a0lifestyle (i.e. lazy, procrastinating, and cheap). We only own six bath towels (two for me, two for Donna, and two for house guests) plus two old towels for drying Gracie off after it rains. Loads of laundry are in my future. I don\u2019t worry about germs. I don\u2019t use Purell. I eat stuff that falls on my kitchen floor. I\u2019ve got a dog who tracks all sorts of dirt onto my couch and into my bed. I probably only wash my hands a third of the time that I should. I\u2019m a clean freak\u2019s nightmare, but no one has ever gotten sick after eating dinner at my house. We own one washcloth, which is dubbed \u201cThe Bercovici washcloth\u201d because we purchased it twenty years ago for a friend who visits us from Northampton. She thought it was odd that we didn\u2019t use washcloths. I guess it depends on how you were raised. We only break it out for her visits. There was no \u201csoft sponge\u201d in our house. There is now. A late night trip to my local fancy pharmacy revealed an astounding array of bath accessories. There were loofahs, synthetic mesh puffs, sisal body scrubbers, boar bristle brushes, and cellulose and natural sponges. I chose a natural sea sponge. \u00a0I think it resembles Donna\u2019s heart. Its got valve holes. I set up the shower chair and figured where to place it so that the spray wouldn\u2019t hit her incision. Then I practiced how to wash with the sponge. I sudsed the sponge up and it was so soft, and so luscious, and so very sexy. I ran it over my chest, and over my scars, and under my arms, and around my neck. Why didn\u2019t anyone tell me to use a natural sea sponge before? She sells sea sponges by the sea shore in Kalymnos. Our second vacation together was to Kalymnos, Greece. It was (still is?) a relaxed, low-key, no scene\u00a0island in the Dodecanese, near Turkey. An island known for its beaches and sea sponges. There were a dozen stores in the port selling sponges, and we scoffed at them because they were tourist traps. We didn\u2019t buy one. If we had dropped our pretensions, and been a little more generous and indulgent, we could have have a lot of fun playing around with those sponges. It wasn\u2019t necessary to wait for open heart surgery. A worthwhile lesson for our next trip. Notes: Most commercially sold sponges are synthetic. Natural sponges are sea creatures, and they are predominantly hermaphrodites (they are both male and female). This page explains how they reproduce sexually by producing sperm and fertilizing other sponges, or asexually by \u201cbudding.\u201d\u00a0This video gives a little history and information on sea sponges and the sea sponge industry. \u00a0 ", "feedtitle": "Page 10 \u2013 A Boy and Her Dog"}