{"title": "Celebrating femininity", "date": "Wed, 23 Aug 2017 00:00:28 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-08-23", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/08/23/celebrating-femininity/", "tags": ["being human", "politics", "trans", "feminine", "feminism", "that"], "text": " Is there anything in femininity beyond oppression of women? Is there anything positive in it? Is there anything which might be real in an AMAB person, that she would use transition to express her true self, as we generally imagine we have done? I am still thinking of my sternest, least forgiving critic, whom I will never persuade, and her strong arguments, and trying to convince myself that there is, that I have gained something by transition to balance its costs. I pick on a will to co-operate, and to support, and aversion from competition, which hurts feelings. People have observed women who are not feminine in this way: Eric Berne\u2019s game \u201cLet\u2019s you and him fight\u201d considered a woman provoking battle, as Helen did without counting the cost. And Jesus wanting to gather your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings is feminine in this way. But I am talking of femininity, not how women are. I see it in me, as a thread throughout my life, and think it is beautiful. I have enjoyed court victories, but mainly when I felt I was fighting injustice, exercising an impulse to protect. And having blundered into litigation work twice in my life, I wanted to settle fairly rather than fight. Arguably it comes from oppression. The NYT had a powerful argument for that: a man sexually assaulted Taylor Swift during a photo shoot, and after she thanked him for his participation. That automatic thank you, smoothing away conflict, at the cost of subservience, self-doubt, even self-flagellation, is instilled into girls and women. Her mother worried she had raised her to be too polite. Possibly it arose in me from caring for my mother\u2019s feelings- yes, really, possibly my mother made me a pansy through wanting too much to make me a \u201cproper boy\u201d. Also in NYT I read of Michel Foucault\u2019s (or Theodor Adorno\u2019s) term subjectivisation \u2014 a phenomenon in which individuals subject themselves to a set of behavioral regulations, and by doing so, acquire a sense of their own identities. My critic has studied and written on Foucault. This is the opposite of Richard Rohr, where today I read The True Self is consciousness itself. The false self lives in unconsciousness, and we do evil only when we are unconscious. Surely Foucault would see subjectivisation as a bad thing, a way of creating some sort of false self. For my critic, my \u201cfemininity\u201d is an act, a pretense, a thing apart, though for me my whole existence. So for her, my discomfort in the masculine conversation yesterday, my pleasure in the feminine, would arise from this is not how I am supposed to be; for me, this is not how I am. If I admit the possibility of her understanding being true, that could be a feminine socialised self doubt, where women keep smiling, swallow their feelings, will not rock the boat, are not assertive, are subservient. Seen that way, from the point of view of a woman not naturally subservient who has asserted her right and been repeatedly attacked for it, I get that \u201cfemininity\u201d would be revolting. She might note my occasional anger and competitiveness, and see them as my true, manly self. I can be very angry. \u201cI want to control you,\u201d I said to her, forcefully. I feel I was provoked- and she could wipe the floor with me, then blame me, I deserved it This is an increasingly competitive world. Twentieth century principles of the good society, caring for all its members and ensuring that all share the benefits of that society, have given way to neoliberal ideals of funnelling all wealth to a tiny minority of capitalists. Having to compete yet being forced into that subservient role against ones natural character would be revolting. Yet if society is not to implode, some people have to salve feelings, and to work for reconciliation and co-operation. I felt that was the real me, so far from how I perceived\u00a0I ought to be, as a man,\u00a0that I transitioned. To be who I really am, that is a price worth paying.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 11 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}