{"title": "The wisdom to know the difference", "date": "Sun, 13 Aug 2017 00:00:43 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-08-13", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/08/13/serenity-prayer/", "tags": ["being human", "trans", "counselling", "photography", "serenity"], "text": " I have the bloody-mindedness to keep fighting the things I cannot change The weakness to run from the things I just might change And the blindness not to see the nature of either. When to fight, or work, and when to back off. That is important, difficult wisdom. Now, I begin to think that the difficulty is not being able to back off, rather than not being able to stick at it: I stick at things really hard, because I am passionate, but do not value or protect myself, so that when I am forced to stop I have been hurt, so find it difficult to force myself back, or wheedle myself back, or trust to go back freely. I can never trust myself not to hurt myself. I am not safe, because of myself. In counselling I find it hard to speak, but I can type a note for myself, then read out the note. I am seeking to escape the restrictions transition places on me. Then I rethought this: I place on me. No, restrictions I sort of accept, not challenging, but might challenge.  Might find out how to challenge  Am challenging as best I know  Self-expression as best I know, now, may improve. Transition, the \u201cfeminine role\u201d, does restrict me; that I have not overcome all the restrictions yet does not mean I am not trying my best to, and getting better at it. I think of Her. She is worth my time, my attention and my work. I am not going to stop yet. I would like everything stated clearly between us, but then I might play games with it, or use it in bargaining; I feel I am guessing what you want and if I guess right and give it I will have it too.  Except it must feel right for you or you will withdraw.  Or if any pathway goes wrong you will not go there again- we tried that and it didn\u2019t work.  Treat you as a puzzle- well, I am thinking, now, after. At the time I respond, and so often apparently wrongly. That led to the insight. As well as retreating from the world, just staying in my living room, watching telly I do difficult things.  Difficulty is not a deterrent.  If I see a way forward I take it. And yet in so many cases I don\u2019t do things I have found not profitable. \u201cWe tried that once and it didn\u2019t work.\u201d In some of my battles I have been badly hurt and not gone back. Yet in others I have kept fighting despite being hurt. Have been frustrated and seen no way forward and not gone back, the effort of understanding and seeing becomes too painful.  Some problems I just run from. WHAT do I run from, but should not? Or stick with, for no useful purpose? Go back? Others do not find hard and I still find it hard to admit that looking for those jobs is too much for me, it ought not to be, well maybe it would not be if I could take care of myself better Give up, find something else to do- So I came to The bloody-mindedness to keep fighting the things I cannot change  The weakness to run from the things I just might change  And the blindness not to see the nature of either. That got seven likes on facebook, more for the elegance of expression than the thought perhaps. -I see you celebrate your passion in lots of ways, says Tina. That reassured me. I do. I had a wonderful time at Yearly Meeting Gathering, and I bestowed my Light on many people. And- I feel I do not know which problems to stick at, which to accept, because I am using my rational, ought-mind, the common cultural judgment. I know what I need to work on, and if I trust myself I might even know that consciously.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 11 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}