{"title": "Pansy", "date": "Sun, 11 Jun 2017 00:00:30 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-06-11", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/06/11/pansy/", "tags": ["art", "trans", "cisnormative", "conversation", "feelings", "Giacometti", "normal", "sex"], "text": " After the election, where I anticipated an increased Conservative majority, I am overjoyed. At the station, that woman asked how I was. \u201cI\u2019m delighted,\u201d I said. \u201cI can see that. It shines out of you. It\u2019s beautiful\u201d she said. I offered a hug, and she accepted. I was already overjoyed, and my cup ran over. I spasmed with it. Feeling happy, walking along, I have sashayed; sometimes I turn my wrists outwards, as if the Qi in me needs to flow out; now muscles tense and flex expressing it. Joy ripples through me like aftershocks, on the train. I don\u2019t tend to notice other adults doing this sort of thing. I am still doing teenage, but here going right back to being a toddler, a different kind of toddler-hood which teaches me to integrate rather than suppress feeling. It seems to me that I could call what I am a \u201cPansy\u201d. The word has little baggage, unlike \u201cSissy\u201d, co-opted to describe non-penetrative sexual services offered by some discreet older women. I can make of it what I will, add my own baggage to it. I am a pansy. I like viragos. We went to the Giacometti exhibition. Man and Woman, which he created in his late 20s, fits this idea.  You can\u2019t see it from the photos, but that sharp point is not touching the female. She bends backwards, but does not retreat, and a flower opens to accept the point. It is vulnerable and proud. There is a meeting, and a balance, between the two. Sexually, I identify with the flower not the point. Yet calling me transwoman, trans woman, woman, whatever, is only an approximation. That vulnerable flowering is overwhelmingly seen as Female, but rather it is feminine, and I am a feminine male. A pansy. I should not need physical adjustment to actualise myself, just to find how my body can work with my spirit. This is not normal, but \u201cnormal\u201d must be resisted. It is a cultural creation of powerful folk who cannot conceive that anyone could be other than they, or that what is best for them might not be best for everyone. I don\u2019t fit the norms, or rules, so have to make my own rules. It might have helped if I had not been so indoctrinated so strongly into the value of normal. Discretion protects the abnormal, it can be good not to be noticed, and one can take that too far. Yvonne points out that all the active sculptures in the Giacometti exhibition- pointing, walking, even falling- are men. Some of the busts look childish in execution. One of his wife reminds me of a sex doll, or at least the clich\u00e9 I have seen on TV: wide eyes, mouth like an O, flat caricature face. Before marriage she had worked in an office at the Red Cross. From the 1930s, here is a narrow sculpture (The more I wanted to make them broader, the narrower they got, he said) about four feet tall, her head slightly raised to meet the eye of an adult observer about a yard away. It\u2019s not assurance, exactly, nor apprehension: she does not know what that viewer will do. She will respond appropriately, to whatever requires a response. The mind of that figure contains no story about what thing feared or desired will happen next, or what ought to be happening now, so will see what is happening and respond to it. I see capability in that standing figure. Across the room is another standing figure on a plinth which would be chest height on her, if she stood beside it. This relatively huge imposing plinth supports her slender figure, which is an inch tall. \u201cShe does not know she is tiny,\u201d I exclaimed, and a woman says \u201cI would never have thought of it that way\u201d: here we are open, so that talking to a stranger seems natural. It is one of the most moving works of art I have ever seen, and she has the same naturalness, lack of constraint, and capability. I do not need to be constrained by Manliness. I can be a Pansy. If I relax and lose my stories of how the world is or should be, I may even be able to be myself. We ate on the South Bank at an outside table, and I loved the Sun gilding the edges of the clouds. When it was a bit cool to stay there, but still light, we walked across the bridge. \u201cLove the T-shirt,\u201d I said of a passer-by. It was blue with an EU circle of stars and the words \u201cMember of the Liberal Elite, established 2016\u201d. He stopped to enthuse about the election. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 13 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}