{"title": "Transphobia in the New York Times", "date": "Sun, 04 Jun 2017 00:00:20 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-06-04", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/06/04/transphobia-nyt-new-york-times/", "tags": ["lgbt", "trans", "New York Times", "transphobia"], "text": " What\u2019s missing from this paragraph? What the three men in Oregon understood, but the White House doesn\u2019t, is that in a healthy society, Islamophobia doesn\u2019t disparage just Muslims, racism doesn\u2019t demean blacks alone, misogyny hurts more than women, xenophobia insults more than immigrants. Rather, we are all diminished, so we all have a stake in confronting bigotry. \u201cTransphobia does not just hurt trans folk.\u201d Why can\u2019t Nicholas Kristof say that? Because it is too \u201cpolitically correct\u201d? Because no-one really cares about trans folk, because there are not enough of us to matter, because others would deny that and he can\u2019t be bothered to argue? Because he would deny it himself? He was writing about the murder of Rick Best, who stood up for a Muslim woman against an Islamophobic rant on a Portland commuter train. Rick Best is a hero. I don\u2019t impugn Rick Best by imagining he might not stick up for me in similar circumstances, but I wonder if New York Times editors and writers would, because there is a constant stream of such things. They miss us out when writing about disadvantaged groups, whom it besmirches civilisation when they are demeaned, but include us at other times? People have to choose between heating their homes, buying food or buying health care and you want them to worry about the survival of the planet or transgender stuff?\u2026White lives matter, too, you know. That woman forgot that \u2014 and lost. We lost our discipline and our moral code in this country. So we need honest Trump to shake things up. That\u2019s Roger Cohen imagining Trump supporters, who later he calls  decent, thoughtful, anxious, patriotic Americans who felt they were losing some part of their country\u2019s essence. I wish I believed Cohen thought me as important as climate change, but I fear he just feels I repulse Trump voters as much as climate change realism does. This happens again and again. When the NYT needs an example of Liberal ridiculousness or political correctness gone mad, it picks on us. Opinion articles devoted to trans issues are generally positive, despite the possibly disconcerting article \u201cMy daughter is not transgender- she\u2019s a tomboy\u201c- but there is this steady drip of hostile references. Send to know for whom the bells tolls; it tolls for thee\u2013 but, perhaps, not for trans folk. I have to add George Yancy, published on 19 June. Is your God dead? He writes  we should be mortified by the inadequacy and superficiality of our anguish when we witness the suffering of others, the sort of anguish that should make us weep until our eyes are red and swollen and bring sleepless nights and agonizing days. He quotes Abraham Joshua Heschel: \u201cAny god who is mine but not yours, any god concerned with me but not with you, is an idol.\u201d I continue to be haunted by the murder of an unarmed Trayvon Martin in 2012. Hundreds of thousands of children around the world are suffering. We all have known about the cruel and despicable violence toward transgender individuals. We know about the magnitude of human trafficking, the magnitude of poverty, and the sickness of hatred\u2026 \u201cThrough lamentation, voice is given to pain.\u201d Yet our lamenting, our mourning for those who suffer, is far too short-lived. I need my lamenting to be heard. It is almost bearable, if I am heard. It was going on since Trump was elected. What is the most boring, irrelevant topic? According to Mark Lilla, it is transgender rights. Fascination with the identity drama has even affected foreign reporting, which is in distressingly short supply. However interesting it may be to read, say, about the fate of transgender people in Egypt, it contributes nothing to educating Americans about the powerful political and religious currents that will determine Egypt\u2019s future, and indirectly, our own. No major news outlet in Europe would think of adopting such a focus. Ongoing NYT watch: 22 June, Brett Stephens: nominating more progressive candidates isn\u2019t likely to solve the contempt problem, at least with voters not yet in sync with progressive orthodoxies on coal, guns or gender-neutral bathrooms. 6 July, Mark Penn and Andrew Stein, \u2026working-class voters saw the party being mired too often in political correctness, transgender bathroom issues and policies offering more help to undocumented immigrants than to the heartland. Credit where credit\u2019s due- Lindy West on the need to be unequivocally pro-choice, 2 August: I hear from some people on the left that Donald Trump\u2019s victory was at least partially the fault of \u201cidentity politics\u201d \u2014 of feminists pushing too hard, of Black Lives Matter being too aggressive, of trans people needing to go to the bathroom \u2014 as though the violent suppression of a movement points more toward its irrelevance than its necessity. Lindy West regularly names us in a positive way. James Kirchick does not like Chelsea Manning\u2019s leaking, even though it exposed American crimes. I find this sentence disgusting: But it\u2019s hard to imagine Ms. Manning receiving such a positive reception \u2014 never mind a spread in Vogue \u2014 if she still identified as Bradley, transgender being the liberal cause du jour. Ms. Manning\u2019s atypical identity adds a frisson of subversion to her already subversive acts. Transgender, it would appear, trumps treachery. I am not a \u201ccause du jour\u201d. I am a human being. A more subtle one, 24 September: Americans have rarely disagreed more in recent decades. We disagree about racial issues, bathroom policies, health care laws, and, of course, the 45th president. It\u2019s a list of serious matters affecting the lives of millions, and in the middle is a non-issue affecting the lives of thousands, made scarily important and controversial by Bret Stephens. 6 October: Roger Cohen says that after immigrants and \u201celites\u201d, trans folk are the people the hard right most hate. In Brandenburg, as in Trump-world, there\u2019s plenty of political energy against globalized, mealy-mouthed, quinoa-loving, inequality-fostering, immigrant-embracing elites with their gender spectra, climate doomsdays, multilateral organizations, mainstream parties and smug no-alternatives views of existence.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 14 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}