{"title": "Toilets in Texas", "date": "Tue, 23 May 2017 00:00:35 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-05-23", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/05/23/toilets-in-texas/", "tags": ["politics", "trans", "bathroom bills", "law", "trans child"], "text": " The Texas House of Representatives, which had previously blocked Texas Senate attempts at a Bathroom Bill, has now passed one. Schools must provide single-occupancy toilets, changing rooms and locker rooms. Schools which now allow trans children to use the locker room for their gender would have to revert. Separate does not mean equal. The Bill goes to the Texas Senate, which will likely pass it, as the Senate had a much wider Bill requiring all people in Texas government buildings, including schools, to use toilets matching their \u201cbiological sex\u201d. The wider Bill was blocked by the House Speaker, who refused to refer it to a committee. The Texas Governor endorsed the legislation as a priority, and the lieutenant-Governor threatened to block periodic legislation which re-authorises some State agencies, unless it was passed. Without that legislation, those agencies would be shut down. SB 2078 regulates school districts\u2019 \u201cMultihazard Emergency Operations plans\u201d, considering things like school shooters, natural disasters, and now trans children. The right of each student to access restrooms, locker rooms and changing facilities with privacy, dignity and safety [shall be accommodated by] requiring the provision of single-occupancy facilities for use by a student who does not wish to use the facilities used by persons of the student\u2019s biological sex. This section may only be enforced by the state Attorney General, but nutcase objectors will still demonstrate against trans children, to force him to act. It does not require or authorise a school to disclose intimate details about a pupil, but using a separate locker room will be noticed. The stalled SB6, applying to all government buildings, is longer than the Bill concerning emergencies. The Texas Senate discerned an \u201cutmost moral obligation\u201d \u201cto protect the safety, welfare and wellbeing of children\u2026 and all Texas residents\u201d, and found that schools providing access to restrooms, showers, and dressing rooms based on an individual student\u2019s internal sense of gender is alarming and could potentially lead to boys and girls showering together and using the same restroom\u00a0prejudicing a safe and secure learning environment. It is wearying to read of trans children being seen as so dangerous. Trans boys are called girls. The cubicles which prevent me ever embarrassing others in a bathroom are ignored- I am in the presence of others in a state of undress. All government buildings should require that each multiple-occupancy bathroom or changing facility located in the building be designated for and used only by persons of the same biological sex. \u201cBiological sex\u201d means the physical condition of being male or female, which is stated on a person\u2019s birth certificate. My birth certificate says I am female, and Texas allows amendment of sex on a birth certificate if ordered by the court. The Bill which is to be passed makes monsters of children. Report in Texas Tribune.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 14 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}