{"title": "Sam Kane", "date": "Fri, 07 Apr 2017 00:00:17 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/04/07/sam-kane/", "tags": ["trans", "detransition", "sensitivity", "transition"], "text": " Not only am I a real woman; I would go even further to say that a transgender woman has more claim to womanhood than a \u201cbiological\u201d woman. A transgender woman has reached womanhood by the arduous path of achievement rather than by accident of nature. Those who climb Mount Everest have a greater claim to winning that peak than someone accidentally dropped there by helicopter. Sam Kane has been interviewed in the Daily Mail again. I wish she would stop digging. \u201cI have had it harder than cis women have\u201d is not a winning argument. Some cis women feel they are dropped in a jungle to fend for themselves without proper training or defensive equipment, when these trans women appear to be on safari, as a holiday. You don\u2019t know how hard other people have had it. Consider my friend, enraged at men pressing her for sex from the age of 13, and not feeling able to say \u201cI just don\u2019t fancy you\u201d because she is socialised into being accommodating, though her evasions are taken as a personal insult. \u201cOnly \u2018I have a boyfriend\u2019 was an acceptable excuse, because then you were someone else\u2019s property\u201d. \u201cNow, I intimidate men,\u201d she said without a smile. Sam:\u00a0I met people at transsexual clubs who kept saying how fantastic it was to be a woman and how happy they were, and I thought it would be the solution to all my problems. We went to different clubs, obviously. I met people who said how hard it was, but with determination and a lot of work they might just manage. When I transitioned, I thought my employer would find some pretext to sack me and I went ahead anyway. Sam Kane, who has transitioned M-F-M, with vaginoplasty, then some sort of operation to create an \u201capproximation\u201d of male genitalia, has now transitioned back, but does not feel she needs further surgery. Does it really matter what\u2019s \u201cdown there?\u201d What\u2019s in your head, heart and soul only matters. Well, that is the fashion. We all had The Operation back then, now increasing numbers don\u2019t. And we object to journalists prying and disclosing what is between our legs, in prurient, sly, giggly articles for Daily Mail readers to get shocked or turned on over. Their very headline says she had her male organs removed in an operation. The fast cars, the yachts, the competition to have the prettiest or the youngest girlfriends \u2014 it was all a theatre, a charade to fit into this male club I never really wanted to join. From childhood I felt female, but I was ambitious and the two were always in conflict, so I became almost a caricature of what a \u201creal\u201d man is expected to be. Mmm. The job below my ability, because just living was difficult, the isolation because I was always pretending, the shame and discomfort and not fitting in my own skin- I too feel she is on safari. No-one has it easy as trans, and it is not always easier after transition, and I really want to sympathise with her struggles, pain and difficulty- but she alienates me. During her marriage breakdown, Sam first thought himself bisexual then started to question gender identity. Some would query late onset, and say aha, they is not true trans. Not me. For me, being trans is made so difficult by society that if you claim you are trans, you are. But this line encourages the haters, like Jenni Murray quoted here: \u201csimply choosing to become a woman\u201d, as if it were a whim. This is the bit I hate her for. Like many transgender women, I tried to turn myself into an ultra-feminine, perfect woman. I was trying to live up to the feminine ideal, so I wore sexy clothes and make-up. I learned how to walk and talk a certain way. I just wanted to be accepted. Like many trans women, I schlep around in jeans much of the time, even without makeup. I express myself feminine because I am feminine. Often, I have to defend myself against the allegation that my femininity is an act. I do not express myself so feminine because I feel that is how women should be, but because I am this feminine. We all \u201cjust want to be accepted\u201d but being publicly trans, writing a book about her struggles, may not be the best way. Some will see her as courageous, some as ridiculous. Find the people who accept you, and ignore the rest. She detransitioned because she wanted accepted by her family, but found she was not accepted as a feminine male by clients and peers. No-one is accepted by everyone. If people can wind you up by referring derisively to your masculinity or femininity, they will. The only way to survive is not to get wound up. As Charles, he went to his son\u2019s wedding. It was very civilised. Everyone was very welcoming and no one said anything unpleasant, but I felt like an embarrassment and it hurt. That begins to make me sympathise again. She is so sensitive! I want to walk barefoot on the grass in the sunshine, but there is gravel between the front door and the lawns. I walk gingerly over the gravel, and it makes me think of the Little Mermaid, whose every step on dry land was like walking on knives. Yes, it is painful- but the pain is not the only thing, there is so much beauty! Our sensitivity is a burden and a delight, we are easily hurt but easily delighted, and we can sympathise with others, entering their woes and joys. You need to learn to be sensitive to your own sensitivity. Even now, I don\u2019t think she gets it. She has it hard. Someone pointed to her and asked, \u201cIs that a real woman?\u201d The next thing I knew, a fist was flying through the air and I ended up with a broken nose. The provocation is merely existing. We all have our stories like that. Yet she is following her own desires again: Do you think I would have gone through all this suffering and sacrifice if there wasn\u2019t something inside so strong telling me I am woman? The whole notion that a transgender woman is not a real woman is false. We are not talking about castrated males, or gay men in drag, we are not fakes. That would not convince my friend. She would accept the conviction, but say \u201cwoman\u201d is physical, not emotional, so Sam is not a woman. As for me, I want to be treated as a woman. I want allowances made for my inability to present male, as allowances are made for disabilities. But insisting \u201cI am a real woman\u201d just encourages the haters. Many mock, and she lays herself open to that. The quotes are taken from a Daily Mail article. Don\u2019t give them clicks, it only encourages them. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 14 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}