{"title": "I know", "date": "Tue, 25 Apr 2017 13:00:15 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-04-25", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/04/25/i-know/", "tags": ["spirituality", "trans", "conversation", "integrity", "Quaker"], "text": " I know I am a person of integrity. This came to me this morning. With a minute or two before I want to leave for the Quaker meeting, I felt moved to go into the living room, then to affirm myself before the mirror. I like myself. Then, I know myself. Then I \u2013 know I know I know I know. I know.  I know.  I am a person of integrity. This is lovely. I can tell the truth. I can know things in two ways, it seems, in words, for I have a great gift in the precise use of words, and by feeling- by knowledge of the heart in silence. This unites the two: what I know in my heart, I put into words; and that is Ministry. I have a lovely ride there, with light following winds and occasional hazy sunshine, and\u00a0I am a person of integrity running in my mind. I get to meeting early, chat for a bit, then settle into worship. This is a good place, and I am nervous, and self-protecting, and that is alright; and it is in my mind there, too- I am a person of integrity. We are still discussing Quaker Faith and Practice, chapter 22 this week. What difference do we make in the world? Did you have a dream of doing some great healing work? My healing work is simply and entirely on myself, right now, I say. (Oh, shall I say it? Saying it is frightening. I close my eyes so I cannot see them, and unprompted my voice goes softer and very high- I am a person of integrity. Someone I don\u2019t think I met before looks at me- appreciatively? Evaluatingly?- and says, \u201cHow wonderful, to know that and be able to say it!\u201d I hold her gaze for a moment, then say, laughing, \u201cHow cool is that?\u201d And I am in self-protection mode, again, not realising others will accept what I say, trying to find a way to chivvy them along- and it does not work on her, I feel, and she still finds my statement wonderful. I note that others, who may have accomplished more than I, express uncertainty or even perhaps dissatisfaction with the good they have accomplished, it is only a little, and I am glad to be proud of my own achievement here. It is a real achievement. I am a person of integrity.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 14 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}