{"title": "Fulfilment", "date": "Tue, 28 Mar 2017 01:00:34 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/03/28/fulfilment/", "tags": ["being human", "trans", "counselling", "sex", "surgery"], "text": " I understand some people get pleasure from sex. Not everyone, and not all the time, but some people occasionally. It is not only a source of shame, self-loathing, misery and isolation. My strongest term of condemnation has always been \u201cself-indulgent\u201d. It is the height of wickedness, the sin against the Holy Spirit from which all other sin proceeds. One could reframe self-indulgence as self-care, exploring or accepting. \u201cIt is being creative,\u201d says Tina. Then again, some people find sex a burden, a compulsion they wish to escape. I escaped the compulsion with surgery. And then I found myself masturbating to climax. It took over an hour, and it did not happen often, but it happened. I used pictures of women in the trappings of Domination- leather, pvc, whips etc. I find my choice unobjectionable- everyone has quirks, \u201cnormal\u201d is a moralistic not natural concept, ought not is. I like the DSM idea that a sexual predilection is only pathological if it disrupts the person\u2019s life, or the lives of others. Have you ever been to a kink session? she asked. She tells of an asexual colleague who went to a weekend gathering, with seminars on consent or techniques, and stalls. One had a \u201cWartenberg wheel\u201d, used for stimulation. \u201cTurn round,\u201d he said, and ran it over the back of her neck- and \u201cthough I am asexual, I tingled all over,\u201d she recounted. The thought of being passive and vulnerable terrifies me. It makes me freeze. I had nocturnal emissions as well, and then a couple of times, including a day or so ago, I have awoken after what I think is an erotic dream even though I have forgotten it, with no emission but a painful sense of pressure in the bottom. I understood the prostate gland drained into the urethra. I wondered if scar tissue from my slowly-healing neo-vagina was blocking its exit, and if that could cause a health problem. I should see a doctor, I hope to set my mind at rest. Though \u201cWill bad things happen?\u201d is never a good question for expert or ignoramus. \u201cPossibly, but not certainly\u201d is usually the best answer. \u201cWorry if they do.\u201d I think deferring gratification is a good thing, and can talk sensibly about it. One should just enjoy onesself sometimes. It is a balance, and which is right at any time depends on circumstances. One can be right enough- mistakes are often acceptable, as they do not have terrible consequences. I put a very high premium on talking sensibly. I had deep pain and shame around sex, expected and experienced. There have been a few moments when I liked something, when I might have found a way into enjoyment- holding hands that time, that evening\u2026 To imagine that sex could be pleasurable, but that I could have no possible path to that pleasure, and that scar tissue might take even my faintest hope from me! It is alright to like what I like\u2013 only to realise that when it is too late! Finding a path could be impossibly complex and difficult! Only now do I see myself at all clearly, rather than repressing\u2026 I value moderation. Moderation is not enough, she says, all parts of you need space and a voice and time. You cannot be moderately self-indulgent. It makes me think of the quote from Fyodor Dostoevsky\u2019s Notes From Underground (1864). The nameless narrator says, I, for example, would not be the least bit surprised if suddenly, out of the blue, amid the universal future reasonableness, some gentleman of ignoble or, better, of retrograde and jeering physiognomy, should emerge, set his arms akimbo, and say to us all: \u2018Well, gentlemen, why don\u2019t we reduce all this reasonableness to dust with one good kick, for the sole purpose of sending all these logarithms to the devil and living once more according to our own stupid will!\u2019 That would still be nothing, but what is offensive is that he\u2019d be sure to find followers: that\u2019s how man is arranged. Moderation could be rational, and imposed from outside- a prison you would do anything to tear down- or organic, arising from within. I value understanding, and being able to talk of these things intellectually. I got that quote from the New York Times. I love the NYT, and read it a lot- fascinating topics and good writing style, with the occasional gorgeous sentence or trick of article construction.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 15 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}