{"title": "Integrating the self", "date": "Mon, 13 Mar 2017 00:00:01 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/03/13/integrating-the-self/", "tags": ["being human", "criticism", "trans", "counselling", "domination", "Mike Krohn", "passive", "sex", "Star Trek", "television", "weeping"], "text": " I have not spoken to my counsellor for over a month, so have a lot of material to work with. I tell her of my dispute with Quakers, lunch with my friend, my holiday. -I did a little light bullying. -I don\u2019t think anyone has ever said something like that to me. \u201cHow was your holiday?\u201d \u201cOh, I did a little light bullying.\u201d I worked quite hard to make sure my friend had as good a holiday as possible, and when I could not find a way threw my weight around to make sure I got what I wanted from it. In particular I was not going to do boring things because conventionally they are supposed to be fun, especially as my companions had such limited ideas of what those were. And because he values my company so much, my friend has to take a certain amount of shit from me. -You are very hard on yourself. Yes. \u201cBullying\u201d and \u201cgiving shit\u201d are harsh words for me. I was kind. I was reasonably self-assertive. I was as creative as I could be. My judgment of myself is harsh, and I am allowing the judgment and trying to stop it preventing me doing what I want. Bullying is wrong. My inner critic calls my action bullying, yet I do it anyway. In unsatisfactory circumstances I am happy enough with my conduct. At one point we reach a stop, and she says she has a question. Fire away. -You said your internal policeman tasered you for not being sufficiently manly. Did he not get the memo? We laugh. Apparently not. It is good to be conscious of him, though, rather than just being paralysed. I love the way I make her laugh. I am telling my stories as elegantly and quickly as I can, wanting to get the meaning over, but enjoying how I word them well. Before lunch, H told me a coat would look good on me. I am playing control games. I like them. If that is her controlling me- what does that do for me? It is what I want. It gives me a sense of connection. -Would you have bought the coat yourself? -No. Never. But I love it. -So she is appreciating a part of you which is usually silent, and giving it a voice. I am addicted to attention. Or at least that is approaching the truth, one facet of it. -You are being attractive, and valuing that. -Crying in public could be that addiction. Yet it seems to me that when I cry my unconscious communicates to my conscious how strong my feeling is, and if I can fully accept my depth of feeling I need not show external symptoms. That can be useful. She does not demur to that. I have known I am screwed up and at war with myself all my adult life. I am closer to finding the cause of that than I have ever been, and to finding ways round it. My father was feminine, my mother liked that, they both knew it was utterly shameful and no-one must ever find out. I had one honest conversation with my father about it, three months before he died. This is my work. It is intensely valuable, because I am valuable. Being controlled, and passive. My best experience of sex so far was with a man who let me lie back, doing nothing, and with gentleness, empathy and generosity opened me up. I was curled up and self-protective, and he got me to open myself to him. He licked me out. \u201cYou taste Goood,\u201d he said. I want to do none of the work, and be accepted. Bullying. It is a harsh judgment. I am crying. She says it is difficult to integrate the self when it is so repressed. At her request, I show her my yellow coat. It is very yellow. We arrange another appointment, and then I watch Star Trek Deep Space Nine. I like it. It is decades-old SF entertainment for teenagers, and I still like it. It is beautifully done. I pause it to think. Do I need it to be in some way objectively good, before I am allowed- can allow myself- to like it? Now I am weeping hard. NO! I like it! Yet this is an exceptionally good episode, ep 3/7, \u201cCivil Defense\u201d. I love the clever ways they come up with to reduce the threat, always making it worse until the end. I love the way the characters respond in ways like themselves: Quark and Odo flirt together beautifully, subtly showing their regard and care for each other as they bicker. It is funny. At the end, there is surely the tiredest clich\u00e9- the computer counts down the seconds to Self Destruct- and the tension of it grips me. I love their heroism: continually knocked back, everyone keeps buggering on. I loved the sense of the characters, and see it is the only DS9 writing credit of Mike Krohn- his only other credit is one TV movie, Ed McBain\u2019s 87th Precinct: Lightning. I may watch that episode again, however ridiculous the whole world might find such a complete waste of time.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 16 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}