{"title": "Living unapologetically", "date": "Sun, 26 Mar 2017 00:00:21 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-03-26", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/03/26/living-unapologetically/", "tags": ["trans", "transition"], "text": " Karis Wilde will appear in a film called \u201cMake Love not Walls\u201d. The genderqueer dancer and model oscillates elegantly between conventional male and female gender distinctions, in one clean fuck you to so-called norms. She likes both male and female pronouns. He says, It was very difficult being as queer as I was- there was no hiding it.  What would that mean? I hid it. I was not popular, but I was seen as nerdy rather than queer. So, I am less queer than Karis, or more suppressed? I think more willing to suppress, less able to tolerate my real self. I think I just started living my life unapologetically. For a while I tried to be a little more masculine \u2013 that was a bit of train wreck \u2013 and then I tried being a little bit more feminine but nothing felt genuine. Nothing felt right, so I just ended up choosing to be myself.  I tried to fit in as a man, and transition was yet another attempt to fit in. If I can\u2019t manage being a man, perhaps I will manage being a woman. But- But it was very difficult \u2013 even a lot of gay people don\u2019t think outside of the box, they just think in a different box. Gender queer. Just be. It is far more difficult than those two words appear- we follow tracks, of normal, queer, exuberant, boisterous, how we are supposed to be, bothered when others look surprised. Aged 21, he found very open, loving and accepting people. As I have said, I have some faint hope for my fifties. I don\u2019t think people respect anyone who is insecure about themselves. I think it\u2019s just built into them to stomp on weaker people. So once you start being comfortable with yourself, you command respect, and it\u2019s a different way that you carry yourself. That was definitely true in my instance. I felt a shift in not only how people viewed me but also in how I viewed myself. I think everything changes in that instance. Why would you do anything? Is it because you like it, or to curry favour which will not be given anyway? Even if not \u201cstomp\u201d, we do not like weaker people, or want to be with them. There is the- how could I start that? Am I ever like that? Is it just that I notice the lacking conviction, trying to fit in me, and not the- It is as if I am shut down, and trying to reactivate myself. One learns these things. Being and seeing, trusting or knowing that I be and see\u2026 I think everyone is so raw and hurt right now that when you actually speak about love it hits a different tone. People are starting to feel very alienated and very forgotten so I think that the word love has taken a deeper meaning. He is a campaigner for social justice. I feel such envy. Karis Wilde interview. Karis Wilde is wonderful, and then I saw this other quote here: You may suddenly decide you\u2019re part of all these groups, but the world has its own idea of who you are. They won\u2019t let you just get on with that. Some manage, some do not.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 16 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}