{"title": "Stating the problem IV", "date": "Thu, 23 Mar 2017 00:00:46 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-03-23", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/03/23/stating-the-problem-iv/", "tags": ["lgbt", "new life", "trans", "counselling"], "text": " Like many pop songs, it has just one good line, but it is a very good line: We are, we are driving we are driving too fast we are, we are driving we could crash starting fire fire when we crash starting fire fire when we crash Skype counselling session. I have my love intimacy and sexuality weekend coming up, I am going to see someone I have not seen since about 2001, and tell her not to transition, and I have lunch with Quakers tomorrow. I love the Human Awareness Institute. I will find their weekend distressing, useful, challenging, wonderful. My aim is to pass through distress to enlightenment, to bring my repressed unconscious to consciousness. I love their slogan, \u201cCreating a world where everyone wins\u201d. I will tell Hannah not to transition. Long term, it is a mistake, though short term it is wonderfully liberating. I will ask those Quakers what they expected- that I would just vanish? I cycled on Sunday for 55 minutes to Kettering, about 55 minutes back, because Quakers are my main social outlet. I am sociable, and today my longest conversation has been buying apples, lettuce, grapes and plums at the fruit and veg stall. I want those, he wants \u00a34.09, no other chat took place. Life now is as good as I can imagine it. This is the best I can do. I don\u2019t want to work, even though not looking makes me more vulnerable to the biggest threat in my life, losing my benefits. My life is in Limbo, and a kick up the arse might do me good? No, this is the best I can do. Work would be some of the time horrible, most of the time just unpleasant and dull. I am in the best situation I can imagine, though it is not sustainable. In the future, when my benefits stop, the best will be worse than this- some horrible job- but all I could do is embrace that worse now, and that makes no sense. -How do you think people will react to you turning up as a man? -Some will think I\u2019m an arse, some will see how beautiful and fascinating I am and like it and express that. -Will you hear them? -Yes. I am beautiful and fascinating. -Why so distressed and angry and frustrated? -Because beautiful and fascinating is not good enough, and I can\u2019t achieve better than this. Now, I am distressed, frustrated (in Limbo) and frightened, and I think of Rebekah. She lives in Tel Aviv. I met her in London, for less than half an hour, and at her suggestion we facebook friended. Most of her shares are in Hebrew, and pre-AI translate is poor, but she posted some wonderful pictures of her in a wedding dress, feeling delighted, and looking wonderful. She is paralysed and needs a motorised wheelchair but she is blissful. Rather than words comes the thought of high windows: The sun-comprehending glass, And beyond it, the deep blue air, that shows Nothing, and is nowhere, and is endless. -I am beautiful, fascinating, highly intelligent, creative, loving -Unloved. I wish we had another hour to go further into this, she says. We make another appointment. Perhaps work so revolts me because the only authority figure I can conceive is my mother: unjust, unyielding, capricious and wrong.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 16 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}