{"title": "Labiaplasty", "date": "Sat, 11 Feb 2017 00:00:12 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/02/11/labiaplasty/", "tags": ["trans", "sex", "surgery", "transition"], "text": " It is not necessary to have a vaginoplasty, unless you wish to be penetrated. The alternative is a labiaplasty. When I was considering the operation, we called this the \u201ccosmetic op\u201d, as if vaginoplasty was not also cosmetic surgery. Surgeons competed to create the orifice- should they use penile skin, or scrotal? What about hair removal? How deep would they go? Dr Suporn of Chonburi, Thailand regularly achieved seven inches. A friend was angry at her psychiatrist for recommending orchiectomy more than a year before vaginoplasty, because she felt this caused her penile skin to shrink so that she could only get one inch. Then, colo-vaginoplasty is the option. The neovagina needs to be dilated. There are no rules. I spent four hours a day with a stent in me, which I found painful and debilitating, and which was not enough. The body does not naturally cleanse the orifice, so you need to wash it out, and it can be smelly. I was told not to have my anus penetrated sexually, as that could breach the wall of my vagina. If you do not want to be penetrated, it may not be worth it. Yes, you may want to be penetrated later, but if you are not interested in a relationship with a man, consider labiaplasty. Here there is a small orifice, about an inch deep, and labia are created from penile skin, which is more sensitive. Most or all of the glans can be retained, so that you may still be sexually aroused, and stimulated. You can make love. You will no longer be able to swive. You will not penetrate another. And you cannot lie back and be ridden in the same way as you might have before. And, before, you could lie back and be stimulated- the glans has only changed position a few inches. It is worth considering what you gain. I found my desire to be passive and receptive in lovemaking mindblowing and distressing. I knew that as a Real Man I should be active. It seemed to be what women wanted. A line from radio comedy- a woman asks derisively, \u201cYou want me on top, waggling my hips up and down?\u201d- stays with me, as archetypal female contempt for someone less than a man. Well, now I can\u2019t swive, though I could use fingers or tongue on another. Either operation frees me from that Manly role, though perhaps finding the right partner or accepting my desire might have freed me in a better way. Sex with another was unpleasant, and I did not see how it might be better. And when I was passive, and a woman played with me, I found it humiliating. I did not consider \u201cthe cosmetic op\u201d a serious option, seeing it as less than vaginoplasty, as what an older person might choose, or someone with health difficulties restricting the time they should spend under anaesthetic. I wanted to resemble a woman as much as possible. If there is an option, think what might be good about it, however ridiculous it seems. The other alternatives are orchiectomy, retaining the penis, and no operation at all. What do you want? Why do you want that? How might it be achieved?  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 17 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}