{"title": "Detransition III", "date": "Sun, 15 Jan 2017 00:00:26 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/01/15/detransition-iii/", "tags": ["trans", "feminine", "transition", "voice"], "text": " Detransition is for losers. Detransition is second-rate. Whether women are more feminine than men, separate from the influence of society and social constructs, I don\u2019t know. Research shows we speak differently to babies depending on whether they wear blue or pink. Friends observe toddler boys swaggering round and sweet toddler girls wanting hugs; and they may just be reacting to adults\u2019 subconscious approval or preference. Whatever, adults show a huge range of behaviour, including decisive women showing leadership and gentle men showing emotional intelligence, at least from the perspective of me, aged 50 in 2017. It wasn\u2019t my perspective in the 1980s. I remember seeing two wee boys in a bus station, one sturdy Scots, whose mother seemed quite happy with him bullying the other, who went for cuddles with his mother, and feeling a strong preference for the former. That was how boys should be, I thought. Expressing female gave me the confidence to be myself, but now I want to use the whole range of my voice, not just above the break- and fear that makes me not a liberated person, who can be however she chooses, but a pretty rubbish trans woman who can\u2019t even pass. Others often take you at your own estimation. Transition is for losers. We don\u2019t fit the social construct, so we go to all that effort. I don\u2019t feel I have the ability or the right to be myself as a man, so I never reach the career my education fitted me for, never marry, and undergo the pain and expense of physical alteration. Be yourself, without the need to alter yourself. Self-confidence is the thing! However if transition is for losers, detransition after physical alteration is worse. You decide transition was wrong, you were conned, all that effort was a waste- so you make the effort to revert. More effort, doubly a loser. That transition was wrong for you, even a betrayal of all gender non-conforming folk, a blind alley, a torture to conform to stereotypes- does not mean detransition is any improvement. It\u2019s second rate. It never made you happy. It never fitted you. But you are idiosyncratically you, from your nature and nurture, and no off the peg persona will fit you. Detransition is avoidance activity. Rather than becoming comfortable in your own skin, you enter another long-term change with a distant goal of a body and presentation the way you like; and this may involve painful, self-punishing procedures; and may even involve curtailing parts of you which don\u2019t fit the new presentation. I am feminine. I don\u2019t fit, I feel ashamed, I try to fit, then it seems I might fit if I transition so I work very hard at that and still feel I don\u2019t fit. All that effort is chasing shadows, chasing my tail. What did I expect? There was another road you did not see. If I only do this, I will be happy, successful, congruent, integrated, life will be less of an effort. If I am not, well, there must be something I can do to reach that happy state. Happiness is somewhere to be had. Don\u2019t detransition. There is no point. Callahan gives all her energy to being gender non-conforming. Or, we shall not cease from exploration, and each step takes us closer to congruence and understanding. Just be you.  Other people are judging! -No, they\u2019re really not. Not nearly as harshly as I am, anyway. That illusion. If only I do what I don\u2019t see yet everything will be alright. It is possible, and therefore not doing it is proof of my inadequacy. The illusion is not true. Transition is second rate, but was the best I could do. This, right now, really is the best I could have achieved.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 18 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}