{"title": "Binge. Purge.", "date": "Thu, 26 Jan 2017 00:00:12 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-01-26", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/01/26/binge-purge/", "tags": ["trans", "cross-dressing", "shame"], "text": " The title \u201cRecovering Crossdresser\u201d might make you think of recovering alcoholic- a person who will always have the temptations but is doing their best not to give in. Take it one day at a time. However, this blogger keeps cross-dressing. He loves lingerie. He was worn a skirt and a top, occasionally, but that does nothing for him. I am not here going to look down on the man. Anyone prejudiced against us would see no difference between him and me, except in degree. \u201cThis kind of trans are disgusting weirdos, that kind of trans are completely acceptable, almost normal in fact\u201d said no non-trans person ever. I am weird enough not to mock another\u2019s idiosyncrasies. I have fellow-feeling. If I tell you not to think about an elephant, you will think about an elephant. I don\u2019t know how not to think about something, but writing a blog, detailing exactly what he was wearing, is not it. It can feel that way. Naming it- one of the wife\u2019s white lacy bras, plus my own recently acquired white suspender belt, white hold up stockings and one of my white g-strings\u2013 may bring back the feeling of revulsion which led you to purge all your stuff in the first place, but will also foster the incipient feelings of arousal. That\u2019s the way it works. His wife\u2019s bra? Well, she wears sensible underwear, rarely bothering to have it matching, and almost never wears the sexy frillies he buys for her. I have not read the whole blog, but not saying stuff may be the saving of the marriage. He buys expensive lace, it sits in her drawer, does she expect him to get a message not to buy more? Possibly, thinking of cross-dressing with as little detail as possible, and dwelling on the shame, the feelings of not being in control, and the experience of being caught might stave off the desires. It was the only time, he said, in April 2015. \u201cAll hell broke loose\u201d. However, now she \u201cloves\u201d it when he has his whole body waxed. She might have made the connection, and might be hinting she could bear his cross-dressing. I hope so. It would take a lot of the shame away, and that might reduce the compulsion. It would just be something he did. He may seek out the shame, though. He wears lingerie to work. He calls this \u201cunderdressing\u201d. He is careful to wear baggy sweaters so that cami-suspender lines do not show. But he is self-conscious: I felt sure that there were people passing me by, who, as I sat there, minding my own business, casually reading, were, I felt, taking a slightly longer look in my direction slightly longer than might be naturally expected. Maybe it was just me, in a partial state of paranoia, but then again maybe it wasn\u2019t.\u00a0 I wonder if he has heard of shadow-motivation- acting to achieve something you are not conscious of desiring. He wants to be found out, or wants that delicious state of paranoia. If they are studying him, it is probably because they see he is more self-conscious than usual, not that they guess he has women\u2019s underwear on. More likely, he is just imagining it. Fear and shame are a great deal of the excitement. People are aroused a lot of the time, including at work, but an employer might disapprove of doing things there deliberately to get aroused, and colleagues might object, as women object to men watching pornography in public. Or, getting away with it might please him, but how would anyone know? Here we are, with our fear, shame and compulsions. I might like to be free of them, but is anyone?  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 19 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}