Calm and in control
Thu, 08 Dec 2016 00:00:05 +0000
https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2016/12/08/calm-and-in-control/
new life trans counselling feelings 
 I hold myself in contempt because I let myself down. I did not keep myself safe. Though that was not my job, in the cradle. “I am the one whom I hold in contempt”- this is reassuring because I am conscious of being that person, and not ashamed of it, so no longer in denial. This does not make everything easy, but it is moving forward. I had the feeling of being sad, and later of being content, and these feelings did not seem bad, terrifying or desirable- they just were. They seemed to fit. Then I read this, in André’s book: We put our head down and keep going, one step at a time. We can act and go forward even when we can’t be sure there is any point. Even when nothing is certain, we can still disobey the orders to be powerless that come at us in waves. We can feel those old reflexes rising up from the past and trying to control us. And still we keep going.  His picture is Christina’s World:  Reading that out to Tina I feel such guilt. I do: I make myself powerless, I retreat, I stop moving. I am stuck. I hated it, when I read it last night. Am I merely shut away, not moving? I could rationalise a case either way- yet the Prosecution and Defence would be missing the point. I felt intense pain reading that. I acknowledged and did not suppress it. Whether I am guilty or not does not matter, does not affect where I am or my circumstances, changes nothing. Do you want to change? Am I “shut away”? I am in that moment aware and accepting of my Being. What do I want to do next? I want to go where I have feared to go, into my feelings desires and judgments, bringing them to consciousness. I want further to integrate myself. The tears communicate to me how strong my feelings are. Do you see these as equivalent: Calm = in control Emotional = impulsive Mmm. Not sure. What do I fear? Sabotaging myself. Being impulsive, I will foul things up. -A risk? -No, a certainty. When the lid’s off, I will be hurt. Yet now what hurts me are my own internal controls. “I would like to appear calm, my feelings not apparent,” I say, and instantly see it is not true: I can see that both calm and impulsive can have advantages in particular situations (intellectually, rationalising now) and that holding my feelings down for a semblance of calm- or restraint, which is powerless if arising from fear- is self harming. Sometimes calm, sometimes expressiveness, is appropriate, and people get it wrong all the time- it does not matter as much as I fear it does. It feels like a matter of life and death. Christina really would have been better using crutches, or a wheelchair, or even a trolley like Porgy. I am pulling myself forward. I strive to live authentically. Unlike hers, my legs may get stronger. A man wants to make yet another short film about Quakers, and I fancy taking part. What is my work? Excavating, empowering, expressing this authentic feeling. I strive to live authentically. What could I say on film to show my work has value? -By valuing it yourself. I do not submit to his judgment of me, but I would like to be part of this. 
trans – Page 19 – Clare Flourish