{"title": "Parakaleo", "date": "Sat, 14 Jan 2017 00:00:49 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-01-14", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/01/14/parakaleo/", "tags": ["trans", "Christianity", "Evangelical", "transition", "transvestite"], "text": " The Parakaleo ministry in the UK is a sad transvestite called Keith Tiller, who goes round telling people transvestism is wrong, a trans woman\u2019s wife told me around when I transitioned. Parakaleo is Biblical Greek, meaning counsel, including to comfort, console, encourage, urge, appeal, exhort. In the US, Parakaleo is training for Christian counsellors at Stanford University, using the Bible as the main authority but the \u201cHoly Spirit, not self-effort,\u201d to move the person to speak. I find the Stanford idea of telling people what is God\u2019s will for them highly dangerous, but it pales beside the British fool\u2019s crusade against trans folk. The crusade is ruthless and hateful: the first article I found on the blog is lifted from \u201cTransgender Trend\u201d, which is concerned about legislation which places transgender rights above the right to safety for girls and young women in public bathrooms and changing rooms. Anyone who alleges we should not use the loo because they claim we are a threat to girls has no sense of proportion, and their attacks are unreliable; and their foolishness led to large job-losses in North Carolina, as businesses deserted the bigot-led state. Tiller claims his cross-dressing led to the end of two marriages and alienation from his two adult children. He bases his understanding on himself. The crusade is not particularly powerful. It claims to be A Christian ministry seeking to uphold Biblical values to the transvestite, transsexual and transgendered person. Almost no-one uses that threefold TV TS TG division now, it is a failed attempt to fit a complex phenomenon into neat, simple categories. Keith begins with a lie:\u00a0 The aim of Parakaleo Ministry is to \u2026 introduce people to the message of the Gospel and the healing love of the Lord Jesus Christ. Introduce? No, he mostly works with distressed people who have previously been Evangelical Christians. Message of the Gospel? -Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? -Well, whatever you do, never cross-dress. He quotes Deuteronomy 22:5, and says It is clear from the passage that His intent that male and female are intended to be complimentary (sic). Whereas, consider the world God created, and see that masculinity and femininity overlap and intermingle. He wants things to be nice and simple, and his own desires distress him. Poor silly man. We believe that males and females are created distinctly by God, intended to be complimentary, and united only in biblically ordered marriage. \u201cWe\u201d is one man. He then claims cross-dressing is addictive. Active participation, whether alone or in company, will result in an increased desire to pursue the activity. Actually, attempts to suppress it makes the person more obsessive, like Keith. Finances remain tight \u2013 to the point of despair, which affects most of the areas of my life. Thank God. The despairing man will not turn many from Christ, despite enthusiastic support by wicked \u201cpastors\u201d like the one who referred my friend, and also threatened to reveal to the congregation the secret she had told him in confidence. His despair might indicate to someone less stupid and closed-minded than he that he is wrong about his gender, and wrong about God. Keith is a silly man who has a silly website, on which he shares the most prejudiced and doctrinaire anti-trans articles he can find. Even when he was meeting people, he had little success: my friend thought it was God\u2019s will she should not transition, until she met Keith and saw how ridiculous he was. She transitioned shortly after. Keith\u2019s worthless fantasies. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 19 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}