The Christian Legal Centre
Mon, 24 Oct 2016 23:00:05 +0000
https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2016/10/25/the-christian-legal-centre/
trans Evangelical lesbian trans child verse 
 Attempting to gain publicity, the Christian Legal Centre have rushed out a press release just after the story of J broke. After a boy was forced to live as a girl until rescued by the legal system, they are supporting parents to force a boy to live as a girl. Christian family fear gender-confused daughter will be taken away unless they bow to social workers’ name change demands they trumpet. Powys county council puts this in non-legal language: professionals are very worried that your child is not being looked after properly and he/she is at risk. There has to be “significant harm” from the parents’ lack of care. This is not some trendy social worker enforcing gender orthodoxy against Christian common sense, as CLC would have you believe. Even the CLC press release indicates that harm. Until he was 13, the child “Gary” was home-schooled with his siblings. He started to self-harm. He ran away. Child mental health services told the parents that unless they allowed his name change, their [son] would be at risk of suicide. That’s a quote from the press release. CLC’s blind self-righteousness damns themselves. The family now face a meeting with social workers in November, in which it is indicated and believed that the social worker will be pushing for Bethany to be allowed to use the name Gary in school and the family will be pressured into allowing her to receive ‘therapy’ from the Tavistock Institute in Leeds for its ‘Gender Identity Development Service’. Aged 14, Gary is too late for puberty blockers, and too young for T injections. Therapy will be talking therapy. There will be diagnosis. Is the child trans? He might start to wear a binder. Forcing an agenda That’s their heading. They really don’t see. They want the parents to be able to control a teenager. The child will only be this intransigent when denied age-appropriate levels of self-determination. Until we leave our parents, we negotiate ways of living together. Only where a child is far too controlled in every aspect of life would she insist on self-determination in this way, against her own gender identity. The thing which makes me pause is that Gary is in a relationship with a girl. His “Christian” parents would oppose the child being lesbian as much as being trans. It is just possible that the child thinks Girl with girl relationships are not OK therefore I am a boy. Or, that given that the parents hate lesbians, s/he insists s/he is a boy as an act of pure rebellion. Any LGBT child will be confused, disorientated and damaged by such a “Christian” upbringing. May God show the parents, and CLC, the error of their ways! However, the Tavistock centre are the professional experts able to discern this. Children like Bethany need psychiatric help, shrieked Andrea Williams, CLC chief executive, yet she opposes the CAMHS advice and referral to Tavistock. It is very unfortunate that the social worker appears to have jumped to the conclusion that Bethany is transgender without even waiting for a formal diagnosis from the psychiatrist, Williams continued. Well, all that the child can achieve now is a completely harmless name change. If they is not trans, presenting as male will be uncomfortable. The self-harm and running away indicates “significant harm” to the child, which arises from the parents’ dogmatism. The Daily Mail has quoted extensively from the press release, without criticism. Here’s the press release. Oh, enough of this! Inspired by this New Yorker article informing me that people say “No, totally” to mean “yes”, I have been writing doggerel again. So let us praise, with verve and vim this holophrastic contranym Though no means yes, we’re not confused No, totally, we’re disabused Can yes mean no? Of course it can! to sarcastic contrarian. Here’s my Donald Trump verse- note the internal rhymes!!- to a Chuck Berry tune: Mr Pence and Mr Trump get ye hence. I’ve got the hump Mr Trump and Mr Pence I’d like to thump you, you’re so dense. Michael P and Donald T After that come “S” then “D”. Governor and bankrupt man They don’t really have a plan. Donald has some business tips Grab their pussy, kiss their lips Speaker Ryan’s naught to say wishes Trump would go away. Donny’s polls are down the hole so he claims the elections’ stole Now he tweets a dismal wail: “Hillary should be in jail”. Debating Donny’s on the prowl Lip is wrinkled, mood is foul As she speaks, behind he looms His campaign he totally dooms……… 
trans – Page 20 – Clare Flourish