{"title": "The Only Cross-dressing guide on the web", "date": "Tue, 20 Dec 2016 00:00:53 +0000", "dateobj": "2016-12-20", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2016/12/20/cross-dressing-guide/", "tags": ["trans", "exploitation", "passing"], "text": " Beware what you read on the internet. A spam comment took me to Cross Dressing Guide, which breathlessly promises, Learn how to crossdress \u2014 and pass as a genetic female \u2014 from the most comprehensive feminization guide on the web\u2026PLUS learn how you can develop your own female voice! Jamie is probably not your best guide. I almost embarrassed myself in front of others by following the \u201ctuck away\u201d tip I learned off the site \u2014 didn\u2019t hold its place. Tucking is very simple. Here is the only guide you need, and if Jamie could not manage it himself, he can\u2019t teach anyone else. I never had a problem. He thinks passing is very important. Even though he worked really hard to pass, I still looked like a dude in a wig and a dress. Well, of course. You need a great deal of practice. Reading a book or looking at photos is not going to teach you, certainly not in a few short days. If you are a cross-dresser, there is no need to go out in public at all; there are lots of accepting places you can cross-dress. Facebook is full of groups. More seriously, I hate what Jamie writes, I strive to create as near perfect illusion of being a woman as I can. Passing as a woman is one of the most important things as a crossdresser, transgenderist, transvestite or transsexual\u2026Your goal is to be totally accepted as a woman when you go out\u2026.you don\u2019t want to embarrass anyone, including yourself\u2026. you want to be treated with respect and dignity by those you encounter. That threefold division, TS, TV, TG is more than ten years out of date. No-one talks like that any more, and the tips may be similarly out of date. And Jamie cultivates paranoia. I want to be treated with respect and dignity, but if I am not, it is not because I have failed to pass but because the other person is discourteous. Passing is good, but you need a brass neck. I decided in 1996 that I didn\u2019t want to be a sad, lonely pervert- I wanted to be a happy, gregarious pervert. I went to Stephanie Anne Lloyd\u2019s Transformation shop in Manchester. I see she\u2019s still going, and still promoting her gender clinic- a friend spent vast amounts of money on that, and got nothing. I asked if there was anywhere I could dress in the city, and they said their shop was the only place. I got my first wig there, at a time I would have been too embarrassed to get a wig anywhere else, before I had internet access- so I am grateful- but they do exploit trans folk terribly. The place to go in Manchester is the Northern Concord. Jamie bad-mouths everyone else- small handful of tired tips\u2026 just awful!\u2013 but could hardly be the only trustworthy person in the business. You certainly don\u2019t need a garment especially designed for tucking- Jamie\u2019s use of the term \u201ccache-sex\u201d just like Transformation makes me suspicious they are linked. Transformation was terribly exploitative, with low quality clothes at very high prices. A local gay bar started using my guide to train their drag performers. And many patrons wondered why there were real women working in the establishment. If that were so, they were failures. The point of being a drag artiste is being absolutely fabulous. What he promises is worthless. You don\u2019t need to figure out how to\u2026use skin products and cosmetic that suit your own skin type. You need help, which a beauty counter will provide, if the shop is quiet. I found beauticians very helpful. Learn to dress as a female by knowing different styles of dresses\u2013 well, most women wear separates, and trousers. If you wear dresses, you will stand out. This is not necessarily a bad thing, but does give the lie to the suggestion that he can give fashion tips. Walk like a female using feminine movements that will make you a fashion model. You don\u2019t want to let your masculine movements blow your cover. A sashay might draw attention too. I found walking in a feminine way was more a matter of relaxing than learning tricks. Keep your $50, but you might go to his site- if you want a good laugh.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 20 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}