{"title": "Trans children", "date": "Tue, 25 Oct 2016 23:00:10 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2016/10/26/trans-children/", "tags": ["trans", "trans child"], "text": " No child should be sterilised unless that is clearly in her/his best interests, and medically indicated. Trans folk would pass much better if we did not go through the wrong puberty. Trans boys would not grow breasts. Their hips would not widen. Trans girls would not develop male pattern body hair. Their voices would not break. Surgical alteration of genitalia is easier with a child. And- some children who identify as trans grow up to identify as cis lesbian gay or bi. It is not clear that children likely to grow up trans can be identified. Puberty can be blocked; I read that tends to be a \u201cone way street\u201d. Children whose puberty is blocked so they can decide for themselves at a more mature age tend to transition. This may be because puberty blockers are only prescribed in extreme cases. Even blocking puberty has an effect on the child. Why tell children that they are boys or girls, anyway? Why tell them that boys and girls are different? We are different in our reproductive system, but our characters and abilities overlap so much that there may be no other difference between all males and all females. For me the answer is to dump cultural gender. If Stephen wants to be called Clare today, that is a choice the child should be allowed to make. The same goes for clothes, pronouns, gendered behaviour. Let them play and experiment, that is how they learn. Let them be inconsistent: Stephen insists he is a boy, while wearing a dress. Next day s/he is thinking on something else and does not want to be bothered with gender presentation. !!!!!!!!!!THIS DOES NO HARM AT ALL!!!!!!!!!! (Breathe. Yes, I know. Shouting. I am intensely distressed about this. Onywye. It has to be such a big deal. You identify as trans, see doctors, socially transition. That means you can go to school with a name you like, but still only one name, only one presentation. You can even be gender-queer, but still have one name, one painfully-negotiated rule about which toilet you use. Hormones and surgery are a big deal. Names and clothes should not be. There are people who do not fit gender norms. \u201cBoys don\u2019t cry\u201d is untrue and damaging. Gender norms are still enforced. I want it open for children to express by gender as they wish. No-one feels in a vacuum. We are influenced by others. We see what it is acceptable to feel, what feelings we can express or act on. We learn from parents and people around us. It is comfortable to have similar opinions with a group. The child J may have been unable to express feelings separate from his mother\u2019s. So we shut down feelings because these are inappropriate for our gender. Children should be given a completely free choice to take, or not, football, ballet or both. It is hard not to influence. Do they want influenced, they want to be shown what will be acceptable? Only if they have been hurt before, only if some feeling has been taboo and they have suffered for it. We need support, not constraint, as we learn to navigate the world, society, and ourselves. Children are cultural sponges: They absorb the mores that surround them \u2014 how to dress, what to eat, what to say. This is a good thing, all in all, since a major function of childhood is figuring out how to be a proficient adult in a particular society. This means picking up on social norms. These norms, though, need not include constraining gender norms, which cut across human nature without benefit to anyone. This idea cares for gender non-conforming children across the whole range, from football for girls- which only gives the most conservative the slightest frisson- through gender non-conforming, to those who will have surgery and hormones for the rest of their lives. Only surgery and hormones require medical intervention. How kids learn prejudice, New York Times. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 20 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}