Sexual organs II
Sat, 01 Oct 2016 23:00:53 +0000
https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2016/10/02/sexual-organs-ii/
trans surgery transition 
 Are post-operative transsexual patients satisfied? There is little research. In the search for improvement of transsexual individuals’ quality of life during therapy, it seems desirable to supplement hormonal treatments with psychological explorations. It is tragic that this needs saying. The F-M subjects of that study had similar levels of self-efficacy (belief in their capacity to accomplish a task) to cis men. Quality of life is lower than healthy controls. On a study of 52 M-F and three F-M, Fifteen years after sex reassignment operation quality of life is lower in the domains general health, role limitation, physical limitation, and personal limitation. In a German study of forty patients in 2006, Of the TS studied, 85-95% were “very satisfied” or “satisfied” with the results of their gender transformation operation in respect to gender identity. The TS were significantly less satisfied (P>0.001) in overall “general life satisfaction” than the general population. In overall FLZ scores for “health-related life satisfaction”, no differences were seen. Are you satisfied? I have needed to think about it for some time before I can admit to myself, no, I am not satisfied. That involves admitting various things I do not like to admit to myself. Dr Scott Mosser, San Francisco plastic surgeon who provides breast enhancement for M-Fs and chest reconstruction for F-Ms says After over three decades of studies of post-surgery satisfaction following SRS surgery, there are no definitive conclusions for many reasons: there is no consensus on standards of diagnosis of gender dysphoria, no consensus on terms, no consensus on standards of measure for “satisfaction”, no consistency in evaluating transgender patients for surgery, and difficulty in tracking patients for long-term follow up… What is clear is that the number of requests for sex reassignment surgery has increased dramatically in recent years, especially for MTF breast augmentation and FTM chest reconstruction surgery. Anecdotal evidence and first-person reports on transgender websites, forums and blogs indicate high rates of satisfaction, but such evidence is by no means scientific. The orgasm study is from 1993! Despite the decrease in orgasm in the M—F group, satisfaction with sex and general satisfaction with the results of surgery were high… frequency of sex increased by 75%. This is on a study of fourteen people. The general conclusion is reached that it is possible to change one’s body image and sexual identity and be sexually satisfied despite inadequate sexual functioning. Anne Lawrence– yes, her- in 2003 studied 232 M-Fs by questionnaire and found  The physical results of SRS may be more important than preoperative factors such as transsexual typology or compliance with established treatment regimens in predicting postoperative satisfaction or regret. If you actually get as far as having the Op, your own desire for it is the important thing; any doctor’s understanding or assessment of you is not a useful predictor of satisfaction. You have to do your own research, but my anecdotal account of my own regret has value in this paucity. 
trans – Page 20 – Clare Flourish