{"title": "Fiction and identity politics", "date": "Wed, 14 Sep 2016 23:00:59 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2016/09/15/fiction-and-identity-politics/", "tags": ["criticism", "trans", "political correctness", "safe space"], "text": " Ooh look! A lesbian on the telly! She\u2019s in a crime drama, so her sexuality does not come out until the end, when she is revealed as the murderer. She is a psychotherapist, a good source for horror: the touchy-feely carer who validates her teenage client\u2019s feeling that she is worthless, so inciting her to commit suicide, after taking her to bed. Empathy as a way of controlling others: what should be safe is made scary. This is in DCI Banks- To burn in every drop of blood. I like the way she is so powerful. I don\u2019t need her to be the good character. Is her sexuality used to enhance her repellency? She is suspected only by accident: she appears normal, at first, if controlling. I like Maxine in Wentworth Prison\u2013 she\u2019s trans, warm hearted, strong, one of the good characters. She has a tough time at first but some of the other Good people accept her. It\u2019s innocent fun for me. On cultural appropriation, Ottomaddox makes a good distinction commenting on Lionel Shriver\u2018s speech. Shriver speaks out for the freedom of the novelist to enter other people\u2019s minds, including those of other genders or races, saying that restricting her characters to German-heritage middle-aged women in their fifties from North Carolina reduces her creativity. Ottomaddox says there\u2019s a moral duty to display sensitivity when using elements sacred to the oppressed cultures of native Americans or Aboriginal Australians, which have been all but wiped out by the colonisers, but eating sushi is cross-pollination and so acceptable. Teaching yoga brings to people\u2019s minds the strengths of other cultures. It is generally done respectfully. Yoga teachers go to India to learn their trade. Britain has oppressed India in the past, but now India shows its power. What would a story of a trans child humiliated and driven to suicide say? I could believe such a story. It certainly happens. Would it instill sympathy with the trans child, or with the bullies? Would it encourage some readers to condemn the parents for permitting a transition? If it did, would that be a reason to deprecate it? Shriver also says that dramas are criticised for lack of diversity. Her novel was criticised for being straight and white. She calls putting gay characters in drama \u201ctokenism\u201d- it is mere fashion. I like visibility of trans characters. It humanises us. I am talking myself round to acceptance of any kind of story, any portrayal. If I try to imagine one I would dislike: contemptible Black people in Gone with the Wind? Is the character believeable? Is the work simply outdated, not telling truth as we see it now? I would not trust Tim LaHaye to write a realistic gay character. I think there is a possibility that a portrayal of a minority character will be oppressive. I don\u2019t think the mere fact that a powerful person is portraying a person under constraint is oppressive. Much of the interest of that character is how they escape constraint, or try to, or fail to. The ideal, though, follows Martin Luther King\u2019s words to Nichelle Nichols: \u201cYou don\u2019t have a black role. You have an equal role.\u201d ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 22 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}