{"title": "Female Embodiment fantasies", "date": "Sat, 20 Aug 2016 23:00:24 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2016/08/21/female-embodiment-fantasies/", "tags": ["trans", "autogynephilia", "Julia Serano"], "text": " It is a common erotic fantasy among people with testicles to imagine themselves with women\u2019s bodies- men, as well as M-Fs. Julia Serano calls these \u201cFemale embodiment fantasies\u201d. There is a huge range of sexual fantasies. In fantasy you are completely in control- if in my fantasy I am being \u201cdominated\u201d I still choose what the Domme will do. We fantasise about things we would never do- murder fantasies gave some relief to me, and to far more people than the number of actual murderers. So people cannot be classified by our fantasies. When I fantasise about doing something, or having something done to me, I fantasise about my body, and I fantasised about my body being female or being made to appear female from my mid teens. The fantasy aroused me sexually. Now I have attained my female body, with my breasts and vagina, expressing myself feminine, I have fewer such fantasies. Because I am attracted to women, I am more likely to fantasise about women\u2019s bodies sexually- my own, or my fantasy partner\u2019s- than androphilic trans women. Cis women have this fantasy too. Serano argues this is because our culture is so male-centric: women are judged on their sexual attractiveness, and objectified. She does not comment on gay men\u2019s fantasies. I first read about FEFs through the site Transsexual Women\u2019s Resources, run by Anne Lawrence. She had useful gen on various vaginoplasty surgeons, and the essay Men trapped in men\u2019s bodies, now expanded into a book. It explained the theory of autogynephilia, the theory that lesbian trans women transitioned because of these fantasies. We fantasised so much about being women that we sought surgery to reify our fantasies. Serano says, and I agree, that we should cease to use the term \u201cautogynephilia\u201d because it has been associated with the theory that these fantasies cause gender dysphoria. That theory is merely silly. One fantasises about what one finds erotic, not about random things which then become erotic. Why would a man without gender dysphoria imagine himself to be a woman? Gender dysphoria causes FEFs, not the other way around. Or at least, correlation does not prove causation. Without clear evidence to the contrary, it is more likely that dysphoria causes female embodiment fantasy. The term \u201cautogynephilia\u201d pathologises trans women\u2019s experience, and conceptualises the fantasy as the cause of the dysphoria. The term FEF describes it. As the fantasy is unlikely to cause the dysphoria, the term autogynephilia should not be used. I now have a page called \u201cautogynephilia\u201d, which I may rewrite completely: for that page should describe what is, and spend less time describing what is not. I may rename the page, too, but right now the false term is well known and recognisable; I want the term female embodiment fantasy to eclipse it. The words we use to describe things are so powerful! \u201cCrossdreaming\u201d is the other word for the fantasies. That word decouples the fantasy from the action of transition: crossdreamers may transition, or may not. I heard of Julia\u2018s term from Joanna Santos through T-Central, the portal for trans blogs where you can find all kinds of trans experience. I am grateful to Calie of T-Central for sharing this post. Her sharing gets me far more publicity than I would otherwise get. And- by eck you\u2019re a shy lot. Comment! Like! Let us encourage each other!  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 23 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}