Sissies
Thu, 30 Jun 2016 23:00:30 +0000
https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2016/07/01/sissies/
trans sissy 
 What does the culture say about sissies? Google is your friend. On the hashtag #sissy, Mistress Flash wants New impressive #paypigs #cashslaves #sissy #cuckold I only take on the best @underdeskloser @RTpig @RTmutt. TammiCD wants to go to work “like this”- pink miniskirt not covering his erection, suspenders showing. Ready2role_clothing offers handmade pink maid’s outfits, made to measure for men. Sissycdcourtney tweets about wetting self in public while wearing “sissy PJs”. I hope that is fantasy. There are dozens of tweets an hour, many of women offering sexual services. Google’s definition offers noun, a person regarded as effeminate or cowardly, adjective feeble or cowardly. Synonyms are cowardly, weak, feeble, spineless, effeminate, effete, limp-wristed, womanish, unmanly, soft. I have decided that “soft” is positive in me. Here, a man being like a woman is ridiculous and disgusting. Which is hard, if you are a man who is like a woman. No wonder trans women assert we are women. Wikipedia has an article: Feminization or feminisation (see spelling differences), also known as sissification, is used to describe the practice, especially in female dominance, of switching the gender role of a male submissive. The male in such a process is sometimes and informally known as a sissy. Merriam Websters Learners’ [Children’s?] Dictionary: a boy who is weak or who likes things that girls usually like… a person who is weak and fearful. Given the pejorative tone of the whole, I find “who likes things girls like” offensive. Then there are the sites of women offering sexual services. “Slaves wanted”! I hope they have fun, but this is not for me. The first positive thing which might be for me is YO!Sissy Queer Music Festival Berlin. The Party Weekend for Lesbians, Gays, Bisexuals, Transsexuals and everybody else. Let´s DANCE TOGETHER July … And on page 3, Sissy Spacek on IMDb. Samantha is straight and single with a deep longing to be a little girl. The first picture here shows men having fun in fancy dress. The text has that eerie unreality I noticed with a schizophrenic woman: some of what she said was probably true, some obvious fantasy, but the bits in the middle are mind-bending. Watch it get more and more unreal here: If you’re a guy who dresses as a sissy, gets a thrill from wearing frilly dresses then being a guy comes easier, but to sissies it’s mostly not the case, there is most times a struggle going on inside. I know I have had many a struggle. A sissy can hide things well, but something always surfaces to the top, with me it was things you just can’t hide. There was and is the occasional bed wetting incidents, there is the real fear of using the potty and something that was more a problem in my late teens/20’s my small willy and inability to have sex. It may even be true, about the inability, but saying it is a sexual fantasy. Sissy is not the word. There is nothing positive here.  
trans – Page 24 – Clare Flourish