A radical feminist
Sat, 12 Mar 2016 00:00:50 +0000
https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2016/03/12/storyending-radical-feminist/
trans feminism 
 Dear Storyending, I don’t need you to read this. I don’t want anything from you. I would love you to see me as an ally, but don’t think that’s possible. Occasionally, [you] even see self-proclaimed radical feminists taking on male points of view when under pressure: some radical feminists are traitors to your cause. No wonder you link to VHEMT, the Voluntary Human Extinction Movement, who point out Phasing out the human race by voluntarily ceasing to breed will allow Earth’s biosphere to return to good health. I don’t know if you are lesbian, but perhaps you know some lesbian couples who stay together for something more than habit with mutual loathing. Can you imagine a happy couple? Might one man somewhere love his wife? The truth is that all men hate all women. It might be seething violent hate manifesting openly in criminal behaviour against women. But it can also be as hidden as an undersized testicle, no one finding out about it until the right set of circumstances put you into direct contact with it…even men who are clear or visible members of Oppressed Groups™ hate them too. I like what you say about quotes there, and note the sting: I teach my writing students that, unless their essays are specifically about discussing the ideas inherent in a particular quote, to try to avoid using quotes altogether because it breeds a dependency on them and a lack of originality in thinking. My problems with quotes are multi-fold. First, most things have been said before in different ways by many people. Second, men frequently get credit for things that were most likely said by women first…  You are a teacher? Men in groups that are hurt by society are unable to feel anything for other marginalized groups– You see no possibility of empathy, so I cannot convince you that I understand when you write, trannies, in particular men and boys who feel squishy inside and think that squishiness is an essential and defining female quality. You are speculating about an M-F trans child carrying out a school shooting. You say it is men that are violent, not women, and indeed there is a study showing M-F’s criminal convictions are the same as men’s, though it was a tiny number of people, a long time ago. That “squishy” thing, it is not how you are, it may be a false cliche about women, and you resent it. I doubt you could see it in us as soft rather than squishy, something gentle, and good, a ground for hope for an alternative to humanity dying out. I go there and see “Likes” from The Arbourist- a male radical feminist- and RSITM, and wish we could get along, and that I and people like me were not the focus of such rage, but seen as ridiculous but mostly harmless. I feel there are more important battles for feminism to fight. You make enemies of the women who tolerate us. 
trans – Page 28 – Clare Flourish