{"title": "Where is God?", "date": "Tue, 15 Mar 2016 00:00:05 +0000", "dateobj": "2016-03-15", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2016/03/15/where-is-god/", "tags": ["being human", "trans", "acceptance", "resentment", "theodicy"], "text": " It is as it is. She is one of those people who is entirely unafraid of judgment and just embraced life as it happened to her, the good and the bad. Oh, not me- I don\u2019t know the woman- it seems like a good way to be. I got my theodicy first from The Problem of Pain, where CS Lewis wondered why God does not save the child killed by a speeding car. God could slow the car, or pull the child out of the way, or make the child see the car and escape. We learn to avoid cars, we are not born knowing how. It is for the driver to avoid the child, and if I were unable to take a risk and take the consequences life would be less. If no harm could come to us we could never triumph- never even succeed; if we need not work together how could we come together? In the book of Habakkuk, the rich oppress the poor, the powerful nearby empires threaten the people, and the prophet fears; yet he knows that God has a vast eternal plan for our good. It\u2019s just taking longer than we might hope. Voltaire mocked the idea that all is for the best in the best of all possible worlds, but perhaps it is. I have not wronged the trans-excluder, but she has been hurt, even wronged, and simply by existing I become the symbol of it for her, the focus of her rage. Same with \u201cTruscum\u201d, who have adopted the slur as a badge of honour: they know that they are really transsexual, and everyone else is just a pervert who should get some self control. Even though I had the operation that is not enough for them: I transitioned in my thirties, and am gynaephile, so they reject me. They could be accepted by Everyone- but for the perverts who spoil it for the true transsexual people. (Or, that\u2019s one way of seeing it. Later: Ah, there\u2019s one.) I cannot hate anyone. Some hate the immigrants, taking our jobs- there is no room for them! They must be prevented from claiming our state benefits, though they contribute in tax more than they take. It would be a poor trick, to pretend to be better than an immigrant. I know there is no nourishment in hate. I have been overwhelmed by what has happened to me. Why would I want to transition? Why should I have suffered for it? I am not a bad person! I don\u2019t come out fighting, because that is not who or what I am, and I hide away, because that is my family\u2019s habit and my upbringing, yet the enormity of my experience has crushed me, so I do not want to go out. Caring about appearances makes life almost impossible. I resent it. Others have their burdens, I have my blessings, yet my struggle seems uniquely hard to me and counting blessings is no consolation. Or- Elie Wiesel saw a child hanged in a death camp. Too light to pull the knot taut, he took half an hour to die. \u201cWhere is God?\u201d \u201cIn that child\u201d. God suffering with us, Christ crucified. \u201cIt is as it is\u201d is where I need to be. Nothing else is bearable.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 29 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}