{"title": "attention", "date": "Sat, 30 Jan 2016 23:00:54 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2016/01/31/attention/", "tags": ["being human", "trans", "absolution", "feminism", "that"], "text": " I\u2019m special so special gonna have some of your attention give it to me! And why would I want that? Oh, it is poison! Man as master, woman as slave, woman feels and man understands feelings through her, woman\u2019s state is from upbringing so I can never be a woman- and the mutilation is so appalling! It\u2019s six in the morning, and I lie in bed, my fragile sense of self reeling before your obsidian judgment of me- not a reflection! Not a reflection! You wrote of this middle-aged porn user, \u201cJim\u201d, who told you his wife did not know of his habit, and of your disgust at how this might affect his role as a father and grandfather, in such a way that he might be identifiable. Beware the stranger to whom you confess. You consider using my name in your writing. and I fear, and come back to that desire. Attention. What good would that do me? Some make a career of it, successfully, but the motivation comes before seeing that. And I flee attention- Philip said I \u201cwanted to blend into the background in the most eye-catching way possible\u201d. Bad thing with bad words like drama queen- for male or female. Though perhaps a \u201cdrama queen\u201d is one who seeks attention, inexpertly, as a \u201cnag\u201d is a manipulator who has been noticed. It is a childhood desire. My mother\u2019s story: -What do you want to be when you grow up? -A conductor. -A bus conductor? -No, an orchestral conductor! She loved the- contempt?- as I said it. I know myself through other\u2019s eyes. Or at least, I know myself but seek confirmation through other\u2019s eyes, to make it real for me. I would prefer applause, and note the idea that children crave attention and act up to get it. Children. Not mature, adult, independent- though humans are not independent- some are more than others- you writing of me is tempting, even though you might- would- almost certainly- excoriate me more than- gosh, I hope \u201cJim\u201d is a pseudonym- mirrors- I need you to see me so I may see myself, rather than to be that I may see myself in you, which was how I understood that essay on Hegel. You know, as I write this I don\u2019t know if I am extracting myself or digging myself deeper. I feel powerless, but powerlessness- to this Judge- is not an excuse. If I am flailing about seeking answers, I may heedlessly trample others- I don\u2019t want to hurt anyone. I want reconciliation before all else. I am soft, gentle, peaceful, and that opens me to this Judgment, as a deliberately cruel man might trample that too. It is not affirming of him so he ignores it. It\u2019s all about them, say the commenters on your article. Men confess. After too much porn, they can\u2019t get an erection from ogling a short-skirted woman in the street! No absolution from these women- so trampling on them is the only way to self-regard. I begin to understand Miriam Afloat. That\u2019s the blog allegedly of a trans woman who parrots radfem rejection of trans women. Possibly, it really is a trans woman, accepting that judgment, for it is how she can be good. Thesis, antithesis synthesis?   \u2665\u2665\u2665 What Jim the porn user wanted was absolution. Not priestly absolution with repentance and amendment of life, but liberal absolution- yes, you might think it a bit yuck, but lots of people do it, it\u2019s nothing to be worried about. In the hippyish, liberal place you met he might have expected that. He did not get it. There is so much anger here: a commenter said, Given the level of sexist hate crime in families, it might be helpful to give his female family members a heads up so that they have informed consent whether he stays in the house or not \u2026? It is possible \u201cJim\u2019s\u201d wife may be aware of the article and, because you used your own name, have identified her husband. You risk breaking their marriage. I tend to feel my sweetness and charm will win people over, and if that does not work sympathy with my hard life and suffering might help. Not with these people, for whom I symbolise all they rage at. I wrote to the break, then went to see Richard. \u201cOf course you are a woman,\u201d he reassured me. \u201cDo not listen to her.\u201d And as you might see from the writing, I am reassured. I always feel ill after meeting you, and yet I feel your particular perspective may help me know myself, which is my main desire. I want attention as well as absolution, as well as to hide away, and want to know what that means. I want to stop being at war with myself. And I want to accept the hostility. I am arrogant for deciding how I dress, because that harms women, someone I thought moderately friendly told me. It is just there. It is from hurt, and righteous anger resisting the hurt even though I hurt too and do not cause their hurt. Just accept it. It is there.  Collage by Kathy Grieb Kennedy. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 31 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}