{"title": "Counselling", "date": "Sun, 08 Nov 2015 00:00:04 +0000", "dateobj": "2015-11-08", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2015/11/08/counselling/", "tags": ["being human", "trans"], "text": " At the gender clinic, I check people out. That man has a huge bit of packing: it looks like an erection! It draws my eye, and he covers it with his jacket. That person has a beautifully judged androgynous hair style: masculine on a woman, feminine on a man. That person passes well but looks dowdy. That woman has the notorious \u201cfigure like a Brazilian transsexual\u201c- large breasts in tight dress, narrow waist and hips, gorgeous thick long hair, mannish face painted sexily. She is a nurse, she tells me. I clock people. I judge them by appearance- however much I know the politically correct position that such judgments are invidious- like the woman on the train. I notice her dress, jacket and bag. I love the shape of the bag and its material. It is a new bag, more expensive than I could contemplate. I asked if she would like to speak, and she said she would rather read, \u201cIf you don\u2019t mind.\u201d I can\u2019t force you. She read her Guardian, I cadged bits of it, when she got out she left it for me. I told her of the Sun agreement challenge: see if you can find an article in The Sun which does not revolt you. Sometimes I can. In the station another well-dressed, tall, blond woman walked towards me and when I did not get out of her way muttered \u201cWhat\u2019s wrong with you?\u201d That I have a greater sense of my own importance than my presentation would appear to indicate, and that I am more interesting and intelligent than I appear. Oh I resent my situation, though I have no right to life being easier than it has been. I do not know the challenges and grief these women have faced. Hills peep o\u2019er hills, and Alps on Alps arise. I feel I am more sane, now, than six months ago; that I see other people better, and the world, and possibilities, and my own desires, and may act and respond better- I will unpack that statement tomorrow; that seeing Serra Pitts has helped me with this. When she started at Charing Cross, they gave ten sessions, but it was reduced to five, increasing to eight at the therapist\u2019s barely tolerated discretion. The waiting list is a year, after the first consultation with a psychiatrist, though I waited longer because of Dr Lorimer\u2019s abysmal administration- he did not dictate his letter to my GP for six months. The clinic is focussed on shoving through the Outcomes, as it is deluged with referrals. I am more sane, and I have to get out and get on with it. And now I need goals.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 35 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}