{"title": "Confident, not confident", "date": "Mon, 27 Nov 2017 00:00:36 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/11/27/confident-not-confident/", "tags": ["community", "trans", "pub", "speaking", "television"], "text": " With L\u00e9ne to Nupton, to start the Queer Trans Inclusion Partnership. She drove me down, and we compared notes over lunch in a pub. I learned that the shy, silent types we want to get talking are not called \u201cdifficult to reach\u201d as they were when I was delivering services, but \u201cseldom heard\u201d. That changes the phrase from the perspective of the service provider to a global perspective, as when someone is not heard that is a problem for everyone. We gave a talk for about half an hour. I wanted to say how self-declaration made no difference from the current position for the wider community: only people committed to transition will seek gender recognition. I spoke almost without notes. I quoted Scottish Women\u2019s Aid in our support. I can speak confidently. On a platform, I have a role, which I play well. And then we discussed things as a group. Only eleven turned up, three trans and several others gay. How to include trans people? A woman at the STD clinic said that her rainbow lanyard won the trust of LGBT folks. Was there something else needed for trans? I felt that a rainbow would do. Someone felt a trans flag, blue pink white pink blue, would be better. It will cost a bit to get NHS printed on the lanyards, and other people have expressed an interest, so a decision would be good. I don\u2019t want to require a different symbol for trans. Someone did, and I wanted to shut them up but went silent. I would not have read \u2013, but he talked of his trans experience. He wanted to know how to engage older trans folk- he is 23. On his website, he has soundcloud interviews showing the change of his voice over the last year on T. Now he has facial hair, he seems a gentle, charming, alert young man, in rainbow braces. possibly the hairline, round over the temples, is feminine- I would have read \u2014 even without the context. She has a professional job within a large company, and is their trans face to the world and within the company. We went for a drink, after. We have made a good start. And I have judged them, perhaps as a way of showing trans is not safe, to my own satisfaction. I am better off reclusive as I am. It was Friday evening, and blokes came to the pub from the office. I am uneasy with them swearing so loudly. The pint of \u201cBlack Hole\u201d tastes weird. \u201cBlack Sheep\u201d at lunchtime was unusually bitter and hoppy, but clearly fresh. I try drinking my pint and ignoring the taste, but eventually take it back to the bar, where the man agrees to change it for Black Sheep. Why would he not? He wants to keep the customers happy. And, if he refused my trying to be overbearing would be useless, what with the bouncers on the door. I am still pleased I asked. There\u2019s a new drama on the telly, Love, Lies and Records. It is set in a registry office, and has a number of ridiculous plot lines, as if taken from lurid weekly women\u2019s true life magazines like Chat, Yours or Take a Break. None are believeable, and only Rebecca Front as the villain, whose ambition to be supervising registrar has been thwarted, is watchable, but it has a character announce she will be \u201ccoming to the office dressed as a woman\u201d from the following week. She is gormless but mostly harmless. She is promptly thrown out by her wife, the mother of her children, and cadges a bed from the big-hearted heroine. Her beard stubble is showing in the morning as she makes up. What would the target audience think? At best they would see her as harmless and she would win sympathy. Surely she would not arouse fear, though possibly disgust. But I want role-models on the telly, not people having a crap time. And it\u2019s not about the clothes, not really. After deadnaming her, the villain says \u201cIt\u2019ll take me some time to get used to it,\u201d clearly never intending to.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 4 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}