{"title": "Gender Recognition", "date": "Wed, 12 Aug 2015 23:00:25 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2015/08/13/gender-recognition/", "tags": ["lgbt", "trans", "gender recognition", "law"], "text": " It has been possible since the 1970s to change your gender in the Czech Republic, by applying to the local registry office. As in most places, you need to have gender reassignment surgery, which must be approved by a medical advisory board including a lawyer, two medical specialists and two physicians not participating in the surgery. This makes the British requirement of two psychiatric reports in support seem simple. In Italy, female to male reassignment requires mastectomy and hysterectomy, though some might not want all that surgery, otherwise. Estonia requires a test to certify that gonadal and chromosomal gender match: if they do not, there are alternative procedures. Finland requires that you have been sterilised or are otherwise incapable of having children. In France, genital surgery is not required, but there must be an irreversible physiological transformation leading to an irreversible change of sex. It depends, perhaps, how you define \u201csex\u201d. In 2011, the Constitutional Court in Germany ruled that the requirement to be sterile and have undergone surgery were inapplicable. A marriage contracted before reassignment will remain valid. Mexico has the most liberal law: you only need to have been receiving treatment, such as hormone treatment, for five months. Moldova may have the most restrictive: four people have successfully changed gender there since the breakup of the USSR, as opposed to 4000 in the UK. Had the same proportion changed sex, there would have been more than 200. In Malta, the civil court decided that the purpose of a change to the birth record was the protection of privacy, not the recognition of a change of sex- so there is no \u201cacquired gender\u201d for the person to marry. Malta has had civil unions for gay couples only since 2014. In Japan, the applicant must have no living child aged 19 or younger. This took effect in 2008- so our rights may be restricted, even after we gain them. Liechtenstein has the explicit provision that a gender change may not be reversed. Why ever not? No-one applies for gender recognition frivolously. In Luxembourg, the identity card and passport can only be changed after gender recognition. The general principle in case law is that gender is immutable, so there must be exceptional circumstances and Necessity. Whereas to me, gender change is entirely normal: rare, but not exceptional. In Romania, you can only change your first name after the court has recognised your change of gender. In Serbia, the psychiatrist who diagnoses GID is obliged to talk to the patient\u2019s family and friends in order to confirm the diagnosis. Only after surgery can the applicant change his/her name, and get a corrected ID card and passport. Each US state has different rules. In Alabama, an amended birth certificate is issued which indicates that the sex has been changed. The whole is a patchwork. We must be controlled, and made to jump through hoops; and where the authorities graciously deign to recognise gender change, our rights are not the same as those of others. But really someone\u2019s sex is nobody\u2019s business but their own.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 37 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}