{"title": "The intersex analogy", "date": "Fri, 26 Jun 2015 17:00:04 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2015/06/26/transsexual-intersex-analogy/", "tags": ["lgbt", "trans", "activism", "cisnormative", "intersex", "kyriarchy", "Lucas Cranach", "transphobia"], "text": " In explaining ourselves to cis people, should trans folk compare ourselves to intersex people? Probably not; but helloanonme gives wrong, offensively transphobic reasons to argue that. Arguably, transsexualism syndrome is similar to intersex conditions. Gender identity as female is as much a sex-marker as having ovaries or a feminine pelvis. If someone really does not get why I would want to express myself female, I could explain not all my sex-markers point the same way- just like an intersex person. In some intersex conditions it would be more accurate to say that sex-markers have not fully developed- so in partial androgen insensitivity, someone XY may have a slightly enlarged clitoris rather than a fully developed penis. Categorisers have produced the Quigley Scale. Helloanonme argues that intersex people have a hard time, and intersex people should be the ones to explain themselves. However that does not work as an argument: if the straight person has no idea what intersex conditions are, then the analogy will do no good. The problem with the analogy is that it is a way of claiming that my desire to express myself female is not weird or reprehensible. I have no control over it, any more than an intersex person, so it is unfair of you to mock me for it. However transsexualism is not weird or reprehensible. Transition is perfectly reasonable, for anyone who wishes to undertake it. No-one has a right to object. So the analogy is useless. Anyone who thinks my transition immoral- Thanks very much, Frankie\u2013 won\u2019t be persuaded. I don\u2019t want to use that analogy any more. I am happy with my choice. Three years ago, when I commented on Helloanonme\u2019s post, I was dealing with my internalised transphobia. It was not the hater whom I wanted to persuade, but myself. But why would anyone object to the analogy? Helloanonme says intersex people can have a hard time, with other symptoms beside genital ones. OK- but does my analogy of transsexualism to intersex actually decrease understanding of intersex? Only, possibly, in this way: the hater, hearing us compared, hates intersex people as weird and disgusting as well as trans people. The intersex person objecting is saying \u201cI may be weird, but at least I\u2019m not as weird as them\u201c. Arguments from how hard it is to live with a condition are ablist. Conditions affect different people in different ways. No,\u00a0ways of being- calling these things \u201cconditions\u201d, as deviations from the illusory Normal, is also wrong: there is ordinary human diversity, and there are ways of living it. I don\u2019t want to use the analogy any more. But you have no right to object to me using it. You don\u2019t get to define how I explain myself to the world. I realised, writing this, that a strong motivator to activism- the need to persuade myself that it is OK to be me- no longer applies to me. Perhaps now is the time I should become activist. I can be a street fighter, now I am less easily hurt. I hate this guy\u2019s argument, but I love his chutzpah: faced with an incident showing the complete moral bankruptcy of his position, Erick Erickson comes out fighting. It\u2019s the Liberals\u2019 fault, just like everything bad.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 38 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}