{"title": "Gender essentialism", "date": "Fri, 19 Jun 2015 17:00:55 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2015/06/19/gender-essentialism/", "tags": ["being human", "trans", "essentialism", "feminism", "gender", "gender binary", "kyriarchy", "Lucas Cranach", "patriarchy", "real self", "that", "transphobia"], "text": " You are either a man or a woman. Between the two there is a great gulf fixed. This matters to me when my friend insists I am a man. There is a package, of all the things which make you a \u201ctrans woman\u201d- which bits matter to me? How much of that is social pressure and internalised self-phobia, and how much, well, essential? There is social pressure. A trans woman is accepted in a way transvestites are not, despite the work of Grayson Perry and Eddie Izzard. We are legally protected, they are not- well, I thought so until I looked again at the\u00a0 Equality Act 2010 s.7. I am unclear what \u201cother\u201d attributes could be meant. I use a female name, dress in women\u2019s clothes rather than feminine or flamboyant men\u2019s clothes, and have breasts and a vagina. Where does the continuing desire to be like this come from? I understand androgynous people, mostly AFAB, have greater difficulty, so do I want to pass as binary because of social pressure or because of an innate Real Me? I feel that if I do things from my Real Me, my organismic self, I have integrity, I am more free and truthful, though of course I am a social animal and epigenetics shows that nurture in some way creates nature. I am hyper-feminine, and that is Real and beautiful: but should it govern the name I use? I feel desire to use my name, and revulsion at the thought of using my former name. I would experience it as crushing. I am glad to have breasts. I felt such happiness when the vaginoplasty was recommended, and such revulsion at the thought of the loss of a toe, that I feel this is Who I Am, not merely a response to social pressure. After the Essence Process, it no longer matters to me when people call me or refer to me as a man. I experience this as liberation: people could hurt me, and they cannot in that way any more. I feel that it is a change in me, that now I am sure of my own femininity so do not need reinforcement from others; and that when others challenge my femininity, it does not raise painful echoes in me. In the same way, being able to present myself in different ways could also be liberating. I want to use my baritone rather than counter-tenor voice because the deep one is stronger with a better range and holds the note better. I want to develop both. It matters what I think, not others. Being called \u201cparticularly masculine\u201d really hurt. Now it does not. Possibly, my other desires come from my fear of rejection and my judgement of myself as wrong- internalised self-phobia- rather than from reality. I am not saying that they are wrongful desires, but that not having the desire, not caring one way or the other, would give me more options, make me more free. Here is a third Cranach Melancholy, with subtle differences from Andr\u00e9\u2019s book.  From another perspective: Patriarchy has created an ideal woman, a person exactly how the dominant males would want women to be. However, no woman could be like that, surely: it is repulsive, a simulacrum rather than a living breathing human, any woman wanting that would be in servile self-abnegation, distorted by the culture, needing her consciousness raised. Any free human being wants autonomy, self-determination and equality. No woman is \u201cfeminine\u201d in that way, so these feminine men, \u201ctrans women\u201d, M-T are completely confusing. They are the shock troops of patriarchy, enforcing false consciousness on women. They are the enemy. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 38 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}