{"title": "Reassurance", "date": "Sun, 11 Jan 2015 00:00:34 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2015/01/11/reassurance/", "tags": ["being human", "trans", "Artemisia Gentileschi", "stealth"], "text": " Women often comment on my slim, feminine, beautiful, pianist\u2019s hands- these adjectives come up again and again. U showed me her wide hands and wide nails: she would never wear nail varnish, it would bring attention to the nails, which were, shock, horror, wider than they were long. The first time she did this I acknowledged it, but said nothing in particular, and then seeing her after each time found myself assuring her how pretty her hands were. It only took me two years to forget this lesson: J shows me her broad thumbnail- \u201cLook how broad it is!\u201d- and I acknowledge, but do not reassure. I should, really. She wanted to talk something through, she wanted to do something you might think was mean. Not jumping to that conclusion, I hear her reasons and assent- she has a perfect right to do that. And she asked me whether I had had the Operation. Not as bluntly as that, of course, I cannot remember how she sidled towards the question. I said because she was so good a friend I had no objection to telling her \u201cI am anatomically correct\u201d. This is not quite true, but close enough. We went out for the day, which was lovely, and ate in a tea-room- we agreed, so much nicer than Costa! I found myself noticing more as I spent time there, the flying ducks on the walls, the old cameras on shelves, the framed \u201cclassic\u201d advertisements for Ovaltine and the 1950s lampshades. We then went to the supermarket where she picked up some bits, and bumped into friends: she introduced me, and they told their news. Then she felt moved to advise me. Each of these she repeats for emphasis: she would no more go out without earrings than without shoes; I must wear make-up, it would soften my features; I walk with long strides which some might think mannish, I should take shorter steps. Though when I told her Carol had said my walk was Neanderthal (in 1999) she thought that was going too far. I wonder when one might speak so personally to someone, and can think of two circumstances: when I am shocked by their behaviour, it really is beyond the pale, or when I am embarrassed to be with them and simply must say something. It could be transphobia- \u201cShe looks like a tranny! People will see I am out with a tranny!\u201d That she is my friend shows it is not just that simple, and difficulty with confrontation might affect her manner. I have not grown up with fashion, or such conversations, and appear unfeminine, and get uncomfortable; and I don\u2019t want to think of that as\u00a0making a mistake, because that implies I am putting on an act. I am myself. and I want the help with it that I want. Oh! The conflicting feelings! I just don\u2019t know! ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 40 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}