{"title": "Masculinity", "date": "Fri, 15 Dec 2017 00:00:03 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-12-15", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/12/15/masculinity/", "tags": ["being human", "lgbt", "trans", "feelings", "man", "masculine"], "text": " If before transition I had to define the masculine ideal I was trying for, I would say \u201cChristian gentleman\u201d or even \u201cBoy scout\u201d. I had enjoyed the Scouts. A Scout is to be trusted. A Scout is loyal. A Scout is friendly and considerate. A Scout belongs to the worldwide family of Scouts. A Scout has courage in all difficulties. A Scout makes good use of time and is careful of possessions and property. A Scout has self-respect and respect for others. The Prayer of St Francis, not by Francis of Assisi, has some similarity: O divine Master, grant that I may not so much seek to be consoled as to console, to be understood as to understand, to be loved as to love. For it is in giving that we receive, it is in pardoning that we are pardoned, and it is in dying that we are born to eternal life. Amen. The similarity is self-reliance. We act, give, create unflinchingly and unswervingly. It is a promise not to be weak, not to be stressed, not to be unable to cope with the burdens on you, which is a promise only a fool makes. At the university Christian Union I changed \u201cFrancis\u201d\u2018s word \u201cseek\u201d to \u201cneed\u201d. The emotions of this man are strong and positive, quiet and undemonstrative: pleasure in service and achievement. Like Arnold Swarzenegger in Commando, first seen carrying a large tree trunk on his shoulder, doing a manly thing because he is a man, getting the pleasure of being entirely himself and fitting his world. Men on the front line of the Somme would go over the top and walk towards the enemy as they were ordered, resolutely because that was simply what men do, even though machine guns made such tactics insane. A man\u2019s shoulders are broad enough for anything. In that film, Arnie shows intelligence strength and courage thwarting his enemies. He has the task of rescuing his daughter and he does not rest until he accomplishes it. The one joke I remember is cruel. -You remember I said I would kill you last? -Yes, yes (the man begins to beg and plead) -I lied. But he is provoked, and so the audience of pimply boys completely sympathises with him. Emotions would be positive, and rarely expressed. Men do not cry: I cried three times in the year following my mother\u2019s death. Ideally, emotion produces motivation. One is enthused by a task, which one chooses rationally. The paterfamilias behaves like the good father, in control for the good of all. A man would fight if he had to, but that would be a last resort. My problem was that my emotions were not accepted when I was a child, so I did not know what they were. They still affected me and my behaviour, but I was not conscious how. I began to learn to accept emotion after I had decided to transition. We observe that the violent man who physically abuses his partner expresses emotion- hurt, anger and resentment- easily. Anger and derision, especially for weakness, are emotions men are encouraged to show. That produces the vicious cycle that boys learning to be men show anger and derision at any perceived effeminacy in fellows. Drunk men can become enthusiastic, but their enthusiasm carries the possibility of violence. That ideal, of the Man capable of all life would demand of him, is not within the individual\u2019s control. I would temper it with resilience at setbacks, clarity in perceiving possibilities and determination in pursuing them. Kipling\u2019s Man is surrounded by knaves, fools and doubters who lose their heads, so this is an ideal many cannot live up to. A Scout is considerate- that is close to \u201ckind\u201d- and that is a feminine virtue seen virtuous in men: in the end, I have an ideal for humans, not for one gender.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 4 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}