{"title": "Lingering resentment", "date": "Wed, 17 Dec 2014 00:00:11 +0000", "dateobj": "2014-12-17", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2014/12/17/lingering-resentment/", "tags": ["being human", "trans", "Boucher", "resentment", "transition", "vaginoplasty"], "text": " I asked if people would still transition if the most feminine man or most masculine woman could express themselves freely without judgment from society, and Rimonim took me to task. The aspect of the question I find most troubling is the value judgment against transition. \u2026 it implies that transition is somehow undesirable..  And, he felt intense alienation from his body: the body issues are important. Commenters agree. When I finally sought it from my psychiatrist, my desire for the vaginoplasty was intense, and his recommendation brought me great happiness. I hardly think the social pressure to transition in this way would have affected me so strongly, if the far greater social pressure not to transition at all did not. The first way I thought of responding, to say It\u2019s alright for you! You\u2019re a man!\u00a0 shows how intense my rejection of my femininity has been, even after transition. I am soft, gentle, peaceful, and that just feels ineffectual and vulnerable and easily hurt, and so I am this badly hurt because of it. On the body issues- I did not fit the script, self-identified as transvestite, did not particularly mind my penis even after going full time at work aged 35. But then I was not conscious of my feelings until they irrupted in my early thirties- anger, frustration, resentment and fear, later simplified to rage and terror. That is, while the inner critic cries, \u201cThis is rationalisation! You can\u2019t know that! Of course you don\u2019t want to imagine you are an autogynephiliac pervert-\u201d I am pretty clear, say 95% certain. The rage and terror was because I suppressed who I am so thoroughly that I blotted it out of my conscious awareness, including any body-related dysphoria. Right now, after the Essence process, it feels as if I am my feminine self, which I was first truly conscious of being, as separate from my masculine front, in February 1999, aged 32. Such a long journey, such a long tunnel. It feels, also, that I am far more conscious of feelings. Once they come out in adulthood they are far harder to suppress. So I do not think I am suppressing a sense of trauma at the loss of my gonads. That\u2019s a 1% possibility, perhaps. Am I still carrying the pain and anger I could not admit? OK, how do I feel about my breasts? It irks me that the left one is so much bigger than the right, but not very big at all, and that the aureoles are so small, and I may be carrying pain that I felt the need to wear breast forms rather than chicken fillets years after starting hormones- and I like my breasts. I like the shape of them. I am glad they are there. I am on tentative steps towards excess of joy weeps: it is so good I can hardly admit it to myself after so long. I have held myself so tense for so long that relaxing into self-acceptance is difficult. It is alright, really. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 41 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}