{"title": "I do what I want", "date": "Tue, 16 Dec 2014 00:00:20 +0000", "dateobj": "2014-12-16", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2014/12/16/i-do-what-i-want/", "tags": ["being human", "trans", "Gottfried Wilhelm V\u00f6lcker", "Krishnamurti", "positive"], "text": " even when it makes no sense to me. Transition makes no sense. Twelve years on, I talk to people for a few minutes and they see me as trans. Perhaps not everyone, but most. I could appear normal, have educated white male privilege, except that I wanted to transition more than anything else in the world and could concentrate on nothing before that. \u201cTranny!\u201d called out a hobbledehoy by St Mark\u2019s church, shortly after. I went up to him. \u201cI do what I want. Can you say the same?\u201d He had no answer to that. And I wanted a vaginoplasty. It makes no sense. I have Darwinned myself. I would hate to lose a toe, but I have paid for that to be removed, because I wanted it. I am still uncomfortable about doing what I want. I think things through and make sense, and what I want does not make sense so makes me uncomfortable and I still, after resisting, do what I want. I got lots of job interviews. I could write a good CV for advice work. Then I broke down in tears and stopped. I wanted to retreat, and I did, despite all my common sense. No, it is not sensible, but I wanted it. Without any self-respect, I wanted the best thing I could see to take care of myself. Now, various courses of action make sense. What do I want? I would like certain goals in my life, they seem sensible, and so do not see wants. So what is sensible is to find out what I want. It is the only thing I will do, after all, I may start sensible things and feel increasing resistance and stop, in distress at my inner conflict. I want to make my local Green Party more successful. I want to be a good AM clerk. Now, my judgment gets in the way. These are not sufficient goals. What about earning money? How will I do that? Still, I want them. I am uncertain about other wants, and I have to live with that, whether grudging complaining and resisting or accepting. Accepting is easier. I feel a bit frightened about this- no, don\u2019t diminish it, I feel frightened about this- but do not feel panicked into resisting. I am writing to publish at my usual time of midnight GMT. I have no posts in reserve, none backed up for later publication. I have not yet written that post on Habakkuk which I could keep in reserve- fascinating book, Habakkuk, from about 2600BCE, well worth reading. I noticed a mixed metaphor after publishing today: making it a continual metaphor would lose no meaning and make it more powerful, but hey ho. I want to write and perform a stage show. I want the same ideas in a film. When I say \u201cI want\u201d I am not nursing unacted desires, but observing what is deep in the spirit of me. \u201cI have a purpose to\u201d may be better. Krishnamurti: The only way to avoid sorrow is\u2026. to remain totally with sorrow without wanting to go beyond it. Krishnamurti: I will try is the most dreadful statement one can make. (Yoda- do or not do. There is no try.) Krishnamurti: Thought is the past living in the present, modifying itself and the present\u2026 only when the mind is uncluttered can the new come into being, and for this reason we say that thought must be still, operating only when it has to- objectively, efficiently.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 41 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}