Trans welcoming
Wed, 08 May 2013 05:00:51 +0000
https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2013/05/08/trans-welcoming/
lgbt spirituality trans diversity Evangelical feminism 
 Here is a woman who feels persecuted. She isn’t. Here is one, far friendlier and more rational, who got her head bitten off. Joelle shares with approval an article claiming that Christians suffer hate, merely by being Christian. I sympathise. She perhaps imagines a 1950s America where Christianity was seen as a Good Thing, and Christian Values very close to American Values. But now, a man need merely state that as an Evangelical he finds all gay sex sinful, to unleash a torrent of HATE. The writer is shocked when a man says that and others call him an ignorant bigot: and from this, exaggerating wildly, he imagines a “sweeping intolerance of Christianity”. It must be hard if you see yourself as one of the Good People because of this identity you have claimed, to state things which you believe fit with that identity and be called an ignorant bigot. The trick is to find why you are called a bigot. Some people feel Christianity is a ridiculous superstition, which should be expunged for the good of humanity, but most people can live and let live. Christians try to live well, and that is a good thing. I don’t hate the person. I certainly don’t hate the Christianity, I am Christian myself. However the view that all gay sex is sinful is morally equivalent to, say, the view that black people should have separate services and not use white people’s services. I abominate that view. It is neither Biblical nor Christian. I can’t entirely bracket it out when I consider the person. Think Banned Thoughts (great title) wants to know why someone on a feminist site who said trans people were welcome there got her head bitten off by a woman with a trans history. She feels it is because that woman thought her trans-ness was entirely in the past. Well, not quite. On a feminist site, women are welcome. I am a woman. Therefore I am welcome. Simple deductive reasoning. If you single me out, you raise a question about me. It seems that some might doubt I should be welcome. You can see that I might find the statement “We accept all people- even people like Clare!” a bit off. I am aware of “radfems” who hate trans women, and seek to exclude us, but they are a tiny minority. We are moving towards a world where acceptance will be instant and unconscious, where no-one need say, “male or female, straight or gay, all are welcome”. Unfortunately we are not there yet. So at the moment, people still need to say, “We’re all human, straight or gay”- either to convince others, or to convince themselves. It is slightly better if you say, “Trans women and cis women are welcome here”- two subsets of the main set Women. And- TBT is right: she genuinely does not know this, tries to be an ally, and is seeking answers- we should cut her some slack. Still lives, today, because I suddenly thought, I have not been sharing still lives. And I learned that Nature morte is French for “still life”- I would not have thought it.  
trans – Page 43 – Clare Flourish