Changing rooms
Sat, 30 Mar 2013 06:00:14 +0000
https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2013/03/30/changing-rooms/
lgbt trans fear lesbian marriage TERF 
 I want there to be women’s spaces where men cannot go- and I want to go there. Especially I want admitted to women’s changing rooms in shops. Here is a woman who thinks I should not have that, discussing a case where a branch of Topshop refused access to a trans woman. I go into women’s changing rooms regularly. Like any other woman, I try on the clothes, look at myself in the mirror and decide whether to buy. It would be inconvenient not to. However, unless there are rules to prevent me, she claims in a comment, What is to stop a man who is a sexual predator, upon hearing that men can now gain access to female changing areas etc purely for stating they are transgender, donning a dress and a wig and claiming to be transgender? My convenience does not matter, because I am a threat. She will not feel safe in a changing room if she sees me and reads me. If she sees me, she will fear that I am a violent pervert who may assault her. In fact, unless there is a definite rule that no trans woman may enter a changing room, and this is known and enforced by all staff and customers, she fears that a man may assault her. The possibility that one pervert may enter a changing room and molest a woman is enough, for her to require that no trans woman ever enter a changing room. That is transphobia: we produce a grotesque overreaction of fear in her. She writes movingly of her experience of mania. I do not think her opinion on changing rooms shows she is mentally ill- instead I compare hers to the mindset of someone who opposes gay marriage. Unless there is a framework of laws which make the only life-partnerships recognised in law heterosexual ones, the opposer does not feel he is safe- even though there is no threat to his marriage, to society, or to the children brought up by gay people. Similarly in the lesbian bar. I might have poor dress sense and look a bit ridiculous- but does no-one else in the bar have poor dress sense, and would she not oppose patriarchally judging them on their appearance? She might not like me, but is there no cis lesbian you do not like? It is a phobic reaction. Here am I entirely harmless, and just the imagined possibility that I might go into the bar starts her mind on thoughts of male violence against women. Just as I advise with arachnophobes, start small. For example, read this blog before meeting us. We are harmless, really. She was mobbed on Twitter, and whines about it. Rather than the some of my best friends are trans line, she discloses that she more or less rubbed along with two “transvestites” in a situation where she could not do anything else. Then she talks of what most folk already know: when people respect each other, when people treat each other how they would like to be treated themselves, the world is a much nicer place. Well, yes. My question to these soi-disant “radical feminists” is, why are you so obsessed with trans women? This one is a case in point, four articles in her first three weeks on this blog. 
trans – Page 44 – Clare Flourish