{"title": "Destructive addiction", "date": "Mon, 04 Nov 2013 06:00:12 +0000", "dateobj": "2013-11-04", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2013/11/04/destructive-addiction/", "tags": ["lgbt", "trans", "autogynephilia", "lesbian", "normal", "radfem", "sex", "shame", "TERF"], "text": " The youngest old man I ever met was in his twenties. He was looked after by relatives, and he said things to me like, \u201cI can remember school like it was yesterday, but I can\u2019t remember yesterday\u201d. He had been sniffing glue since age 14. He managed to give up twice, but when his grandmother died he was upset, and he went back on it. He is probably dead by now. Autogynephilia is a false theory. We try so desperately to make men of ourselves, running from our femininity; and we are living in role as female, long after we cease to be aroused by it. So, if \u201cgender dysphoria\u201d had any meaning, and we were \u201creally\u201d men, we would be feeling terrible gender dysphoria. But- what if there were something in the development of autogynephilia that prevented us from feeling that dysphoria? The dysphoria goes the other way- we can\u2019t stand presenting male- what if that developed through erotic reinforcement? Being transsexual is a difficult thing to cope with, sometimes. I might resent that I have this difficulty. And- Peter was killed in a motorbike accident, affecting all his family. Bad things happen to good people. What if I had caused it? I should have treated it like an addiction, and found ways of avoiding it- I did for a year, once, I would have claimed to have \u201cgiven up\u201d- so it is my failure that leaves me where I am now. Other people kick addictions, lots of teenagers sniff glue, then stop, and I am too weak. I coulda been a contender! Still, human beings are a mix of good qualities and bad qualities. Where I am, now, is happy expressing myself female and revolted at the idea of presenting male. It is no more shameful than falling from a cliff because I could not hold on any longer, or a motorcyclist skidding in a patch of oil, and a lot less unpleasant than those things.  What difference would that make for changing rooms and loos? None. If I want to try on clothes or go swimming, I use the women\u2019s changing room, I have a cubicle, and I behave normally, like everyone else in there. What about the lesbian bar? Well, most people there are tolerant enough, and really don\u2019t mind. You could get all political, and say I am a man, and men should not be in there, but such rigid categories are so last century.\u00a0 Some lesbians have trans girlfriends- should they be ejected too? Tolerate me! You might notice this is not a particularly rigorous analysis, certainly not enough to satisfy a TERF. It does not have to be, for the reason that we are mostly harmless, far more murdered than assaulting others. If any woman is upset at my presence because I make her think of male violence against her, and she wants me out, let us talk about it. If any woman is concerned someone else might be upset, there is no problem, because it is so unlikely. Tolerance of others is a good thing. As society gets more racially and culturally mixed, we meet people who don\u2019t grow up in the same culture and see things the same way, and on the whole it is better if we can get on with them. Racism is bad. But humans are also sexual beings, with a strong sex drive, who have to find some way of not acting on it in order to function in society. Some homophobes do not like gay people because we make them think of sex. But that is not us, that is the homophobe. You still have to find a way of not acting on sexual thoughts, bracketing them for particular places. Homophobia is bad. Autogynephilia is a symptom, and not a cause, of transsexuality. But even if it were not, so what?  0.000000 0.000000 ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 44 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}