Tucking
Wed, 20 Mar 2013 06:00:36 +0000
https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2013/03/20/tucking-penis-drag/
lgbt trans Analysis lie Radio 4 TERF tucking tucking penis 
  Tuck your penis, as if it was not there How to tuck your penis, to achieve a feminine profile, so you can wear swimming costumes like the one pictured. Julie Bindel insulted a trans woman: I was volunteering at a service near a street prostitution area where the women had an appalling history of child sexual abuse and who were being abused on the streets, and a male to female transgender person pre-op, came in, beard stubble, very short skirt, sat with her legs very widely splayed and obviously had male genitals and proceeded to behave aggressively to the other women, and there was nothing the manager of the service could do to tell her to leave because she legally has the right to be in that space as a woman…their rights are viewed as more important than the women. You can avoid this problem. When I dressed female before transitioning, I learned to “tuck”. I pushed my testicles back into the inguinal canal whence they descended before puberty. I then folded my penis back between my legs, and held it in place with control pants, which also pull your tummy in. I did this when wearing a ballgown with hooped underskirt– tranny dos are flamboyant- leave alone a short skirt. When I transitioned, I tucked all the time until I had my operation. I was concerned there might be risks in this- twisting the testicle and reducing its blood supply- but took care, and took the risk. The risk seemed worthwhile.  Take the scrotum gently with the fingertips of both hands, then exert gentle pressure on the testicles, upwards, moving each around slowly until you feel a little give. Push the testicle up, there, and it will slip into the canal.  Each testicle has its own canal. Then fold the penis back between the legs, and pull on your control briefs to hold it in place. I did this daily for 18 months with no ill-effects. It was perfectly comfortable, and I could look down and see a feminine shape, which was reassuring as I grew to dislike my penis more and more. The photos are me in a swimming costume, pre-op. Have a look at more photographs. The testicle descends of its own accord when you untuck, but if it does not and you really want it to, gentle pressure behind the scrotum does the trick. Tucking and taping Tape is unnecessary, if wearing a mini skirt. When you are taking hormones, ordinary panties will do, especially with tights, but I wanted to be sure, and I wanted my penis tightly held back, so used control briefs. Brevity is the soul of lingerie, but when it has to be firm and extensive it can still be pretty enough. But if you want to wear a thong or bikini bottoms, you need to tape. Micropore tape is flesh coloured and gentle on your skin. Cut two lengths long enough to stretch from the base of your penis to the top of your anal cleft, when tucked. Stick these to your penis, and wrap a third length around the penis, loosely enough not to constrict the blood supply if you get an erection. Tuck your testicles, pull the tapes back and stick them inside your buttocks. You have a feminine silhouette, under the briefest panties. Practice makes perfect, and you can tuck with complete confidence. SEE ALSO: Lace: on getting a properly fitting brassière. “Autogynephilia”. No, we are not perverts, we are women. Tranny blog: on tranny chasers. Try the Home Page. All human life is here: see the guide to Trans life. And- leave a comment! What would you like from this blog?   0.000000 0.000000 
trans – Page 44 – Clare Flourish