{"title": "Celebrating the male Mother", "date": "Wed, 26 Jun 2013 05:00:54 +0000", "dateobj": "2013-06-26", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2013/06/26/sissy-submissive/", "tags": ["lgbt", "trans", "Chopin", "culture", "shame", "sissy"], "text": " I need words, for how may I see without them? I have something utterly beautiful, sweet, vulnerable, precious, fragile, creative, and I need to describe it. It is male: it is proper to, and the common experience of, some people with testicles. It is Feminine in the best sense of that word. It is well known, for we have many words for it: sissy or submissive, which I have put in my permalink in a flagrant attempt at attracting searches. Our words are contemptuous: \u201cshe wears the trousers in a relationship\u201d, he is a \u201cmale lesbian\u201c, he is a sissy. Our sexuality is a part of this, and there are spaces for it, and we feel ashamed as we seek them out. The internet offerings are porn sites and professional dominatrix sites: it may be that there are fewer women able to make a satisfying relationship with us than there are of us, or they know and accept themselves even less than we do. There is an ideal of manhood, the warrior male, and so rather than being seen as having an equal and alternative way of being male, I am seen as an inadequate male. Just as with homophobia, I internalise that, desperate to fit the ideal of manhood. I am slightly different. I am a trans woman, a trans lesbian, and I see the continuity in the spectrum from men with no desire to transition who want a woman to wear the trousers. That perplexed and distressed me- seeing the maleness of my way of being, I wondered if my desire to transition was just a diseased fantasy (as if I needed yet another reason to wonder that). By the way, it isn\u2019t. We want a woman to wear the trousers. Or- WHAT? How may I put this positively? Casting around for positive role-models, at one moment I consider the camp gay male, but that is not it. That is not me. That is not this man I am thinking of. -who want a woman who complements them, and allows their eldritch fey feminine to blossom and flourish. My culture is deficient, and suffers for it. We need a way of delighting in this wonderful gift, or otherwise it becomes a curse. Looking for pictures has been so difficult. Chopin seems to fit; but I cannot think of another, and looking under \u201cfop\u201d, \u201cdandy\u201d or \u201ceffeminate\u201d does not seem to produce another, so I pick Georges Sand faute de mieux. This RuPaul quote is spot on: There is a definite prejudice towards men who use femininity as part of their palate; their emotional palate, their physical palate. Is that changing? It\u2019s changing in ways that don\u2019t advance the cause of femininity. I\u2019m not talking frilly-laced pink things or Hello Kitty stuff. I\u2019m talking about goddess energy, intuition and feelings. That is still under attack, and it has gotten worse. But RuPaul did not seem to fit, following the drag queen tradition, normally gay. The gynephilia of my group feels intensely important. Something has happened, which brings this into terribly sharp relief for me. I had lunch with Liz, and said that I have to be authentic, and self-accepting, and to integrate myself. I found it difficult to get the word authentic out without verbally putting ironic quote marks round it, mocking myself. But it is true, and saying it gets easier. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 45 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}