{"title": "22:5", "date": "Sat, 08 Dec 2012 06:00:10 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2012/12/08/transsexual-deuteronomy/", "tags": ["spirituality", "trans", "Bible", "Goya", "Peterson Toscano", "William Dunbar"], "text": " A woman shall not wear that which pertaineth to a man, nor shall a man wear a woman\u2019s garment: The Lord hates those who do such things. That is Deuteronomy 22:5, quoted from memory. Most of the Bible texts are against the gays, but this one is just for the trannies. The Evangelical Alliance also thought \u201cmale and female God created them\u201d, Genesis 1, was relevant. The EA read the verse simply. Men and women are different, and a man who thinks he is a woman is plainly mentally ill. He should be given counselling until he accepts what sex he really is. However, such treatment does not work, and the only treatment to give us any equanimity is transition, so that we present as our true sex. Or gender, or whatever. I look at it differently. Women are named first. At the time, priests soldiers and judges, male roles, had specific clothes, and they still do. Could the verse be saying that women should not take on these male roles? Is context useful? This is a chapter which says that if a woman is not a virgin when she marries, she should be stoned to death for prostituting herself in her father\u2019s house, and that if an Israelite sees his neighbour\u2019s sheep straying, he should take them back to his owner. Parts of it enforce Neighbourliness, which is next to Love; and parts are obsolete and repellent. As for \u201cmale and female God created them\u201d, men and women are different, and of equal value, but that does not mean that God defines \u201cwoman\u201d in such a way as to exclude me. However, let us suppose that the meaning of the Bible can be precisely determined, and it means that no-one should be allowed to transition because it is morally wrong, as well as mentally ill; and that absolutely all homosexual acts are against God\u2019s will. My answer, as a Christian, is I don\u2019t care. Clearly we are born that way, so calling us \u201cunnatural\u201d is ridiculous. The reason why I keep saying these things to my very small audience is to get it into my own skull. I grew up believing that my natural way of being was utterly Wrong, and that crippled me: unable to change, I was unable to be myself either. So, I keep saying, it is OK to be who I am. Whoever denies that, Princis, prelotis, and potestatis, on whatever authority, I contradict them. And- There is neither Jew nor Gentile, neither slave nor free, nor is there male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. That is, there is no out-group, so we do not need to define who is or is not Jew or Female in order to exclude or include anyone.  In his one man show on transgender in the Bible, Peterson Toscano portrayed the man carrying water, the sign for the disciples to prepare for the Passover meal. But men never carried water, it was women\u2019s work. He imagined that water-carrier, trans, coming out as female. The moment of carrying the water was a liberation for her- and for me.  0.000000 0.000000 ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 46 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}