{"title": "Butches", "date": "Fri, 21 Dec 2012 06:00:55 +0000", "dateobj": "2012-12-21", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2012/12/21/butches/", "tags": ["lgbt", "new life", "trans", "asexual", "butch", "coming out", "femme", "lesbian", "real self", "self-acceptance", "weeping"], "text": " As the internet is insecure, you should write nothing on it you would not write on a postcard. So says a guide to net use written in the 90s, shared on a yahoo group this year. That was never my way. I like the lesbian blog Nothing Nice, Nothing Sweet. Some of her pictures I find bizarre, but this entry I find a complete turn on. Since seeing it I have returned to one website source of her photos, and been overwhelmed, and wept with the shame of it more than once. There\u2019s another truth of the internet, it assuages the most recondite tastes. Though not particularly unusual in my case. It is recognised in lesbian culture in the words \u201cbutch\u201d and \u201cfemme\u201d, and generally with heterosexual couples in the phrase \u201cshe wears the trousers in that relationship\u201d. When I was seeing C we referred more than once to the relationship of George Sand and Frederic Chopin. In the conservative circles I come from, it is not admired. It is a guilty secret spoken of in mocking whispers. I have imbibed that, and so it is only now, aged 46, that I say, this is who I am. This is what I desire. This I know. I thought myself asexual for a time, and now believe I was in denial rather than asexual. My shame was so strong that I repressed my sexuality. I experience no sense of choice in the matter, if I could change it I would, and being unable to change it and only suffering pain in the attempt to deny it I now try admitting it, which can hardly be worse. If my sexuality is not innate it is created by unconscious forces on which my conscious resistance has had no effect. I find ridiculous the new age reincarnation theory that we, as angels, choose the life experiences we will learn from in this particular journey in a body, but it has the value that it helps one to accept what must be accepted. A gay friend who died years ago told me that he had been both masculine and feminine in his semi-permanent relationships- I am not sure which words he used- and he found that moving from one role in one relationship to the other in another, he felt changes in his personality, and in the location and effect of erogenous zones on his body. Anyone who has experienced that or knows how common it is please leave a comment. I do not think that is my inner self. My attempts at expressing conventional male heterosexuality might have worked better if it were. I am 46, and making the kind of realisation that a lesbian brought up in a conservative Evangelical household in Texas might make in her early 20s. I don\u2019t know what to do with it, apart from that resistance does no good. I come out to myself. I have had two cuddles in the past month- cuddles rather than hugs, with friends- where I have just dissociated and stiffened. Just possibly, acceptance might make a cuddle a pleasant thing. You might just see a Truffaut gamine in that last picture, but I don\u2019t. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 47 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}