{"title": "Toleration", "date": "Tue, 11 Dec 2012 06:00:58 +0000", "dateobj": "2012-12-11", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2012/12/11/toleration/", "tags": ["lgbt", "spirituality", "trans", "Bible", "tolerance"], "text": " Here is a woman who only asks to be tolerated. You want tolerance, but you\u2019re totally and completely unwilling to be tolerant in return. Be tolerant of my disagreement with your sin. It works both ways. Otherwise it\u2019s just a double standard. There is no equivalence here at all. On the one hand, I do not ask even for \u201cacceptance\u201d. I want your acceptance of me to be so complete and immediate that there is no thought about it. Why? Because this is who I am. I am transsexual. I struggled for a long time to make a man of myself, and could not. So I do not try any more. No,\u00a0 I do not understand either why a person might have a Y chromosome and develop normal testicles and want them cut off and want to express herself female, leave alone why I should still be attracted to women rather than men (a lot of people find that last bit completely mindblowing). I do know that it is not a mental disorder. I do know that it cannot be changed, or I, with my consciousness of \u201csin\u201d, passion, energy and obstinacy, and desperation to be normal would have changed it. This is who I am. I am a human being. I do my best in life, seeking to do good and avoid harm or sin, worshipping God. I do not \u201cflaunt\u201d my identity, but I will not hide it either. On the other hand, Daughter of the King of Kings asks tolerance of her opinion. It means a lot to her, this opinion: that all homosexual acts are always sinful. She thinks it is part of her religion, which she will not betray. Holding that opinion is an inseparable part of showing proper respect for the Bible. When that opinion is disrespected, she may feel as hurt as I did when called a \u201cman\u201d. She is mistaken. It is only an opinion. There are Biblical scholars who say that the Bible does not condemn all homosexual acts, only acts which we would condemn if heterosexual: such as, gang rape in Genesis. If the crowd had raped Lot\u2019s daughters as Lot suggested, that would have been equally vile. So, her opinion is not necessary to show respect for\u00a0 the Bible, or to follow the Christian religion. Second, her opinion is morally obnoxious. It calls a group of blameless people to be celibate, specifically against Biblical teaching, for example, \u201cit is not good for the man to be alone\u201d. If she does not take an equally strong stand against a couple who are divorced and remarried in her church as she does against a gay couple, she is a hypocrite, judging other people\u2019s temptations as morally worse than her own. But if I express my disgust and horror at her opinion, it is a part of her which she may change. No-one is born with evil opinions about morality. Children only feel disgust at those who are different, such as gay people, if taught to. It is different from her being disgusted at my very nature, or demanding that I hide that nature. Nor does free speech support her. I support absolutely her right\u00a0 to state her evil opinion, but that does not stop right-thinking people from mocking it and expressing disgust and horror at her for holding it. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 47 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}