{"title": "Cultural expressions", "date": "Sun, 11 Nov 2012 06:00:55 +0000", "dateobj": "2012-11-11", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2012/11/11/cultural-expressions/", "tags": ["trans", "Cybele", "femminiello", "Jesus", "normal", "retreat", "transition"], "text": " People must be Normal. But if you cannot manage that, there are tolerated paths of abnormality. These are not as good as proper Normal, but at least they are our Weird. The Femminielli of Naples are accepted as part of the culture, with roles in ritual and seen as good luck where \u201ctranssexuals\u201d may be driven out. (Thanks to Lexi for introducing me to the concept.) The Galli were eunuch priests of Cybele. So, my path is that of the trans woman. I saw a psychiatrist, and got a diagnosis. Then I \u201ctransition\u201d- I change my name, have my facial hair permanently removed, get my genitals adjusted. Now I express myself female, making my voice higher, dressing female, using feminine body-language. I have undertaken to so express myself life long, and have had this confirmed by a psychiatrist and my GP, and so am rewarded with my gender recognition certificate and protected under the Equality Act 2010. Also in my culture are drag queens, female impersonators and transvestites- all of whom do their thing in particular locations, and not full time. God, I want to fit in. So I am not certain whether I want to use a higher voice because I want it, or because that is the way to be a normal trans woman. That path was made for androphilic M-Fs, and lesbian M-Fs had The Script- \u201cI knew there was something wrong aged 3, and I knew I was a girl aged 5, no I have never masturbated to fantasies of being female, no sir, not never not nohow\u201d etc. We needed the script because we needed to tell the psychiatrist what he needed to hear before he could give us what we wanted. I think it is not quite so bad now. On the forums, we policed ourselves: the wrath awaiting those who were \u201cNon-op\u201d or thought they might be \u201cautogynephiliac\u201d was severe. This concerns how I see myself, how I feel, how I respond, unconsciously and consciously. It concerns where I am conflicted, dragged in two ways- my No, making me hide in my living room. A Gallus could not be a Roman citizen, because Romans could not castrate themselves. There would be ways round it- use a different accent, blind eyes turned, no-one actually inspects you- and someone would be safe unless someone with a grudge dobbed her in, perhaps. The Rules, the Normal, never lets you survive, it only pretends to; you have to break the rules to survive. The hermeneutic of suspicion works. The Bible is not this good thing given by God for our good, it is imperfect and written by men in patriarchy. Similarly, I must be suspicious of everything I have absorbed. Nothing can be trusted, each perception needs questioned. I ministered on this, and the enforcement of conformity: the Legal Services Commission deciding that all files should be fastened in date order with a treasury tag or similar, and marking down on the Audit if they were not, and the Broad and Narrow Way, and after Liz said to me that a phrase should be translated I am IS the way, the truth and the life and that makes a huge difference to it. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 47 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}