Tranny blog
Sat, 09 Jun 2012 05:00:25 +0000
https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2012/06/09/tranny-blog/
trans Circé porn Rossetti tranny tranny blog 
    Tranny pics! Hot sexy trannies! Hot sexy tranny pics! Sex! Hot! Rate these gorgeous sexy trannies! Official tranny porn! Trannies! If you google for “tranny blog”, that is the kind of thing you will see. Human beings used as sex objects for men to look at and masturbate. Pictures of people with breasts and penises portrayed as freaks. So one reason I have for using the word Tranny here is to figure in such searches, so that I might engage with the people who look there. My top four search terms are “tranny blog“, “Durga“, “Clare Flourish” and “trans sex“.    Quemcumque miserum videris, hominem scias, says the Royal Life Saving Society, which teaches pool attendants and lifeguards on beaches. Whomsoever you see in distress, recognise a fellow human being. No, this could not be your mother or your sister, objectified in this way, so that argument is useless. How else might you recognise me? A human being, degraded for your enjoyment, used as a thing. Does that stir your empathy at all? Do you really want to trample on other people? Is that how you see yourself, in a War against the world, pushing people out of the way, standing on them if it gets what you want?     But wait. Imagine they could look through your webcam and see you at 3am, engrossed and engorged and entrapped, addicted- led by your dick- alone, ashamed and frightened in case anyone knew you did this disgusting thing, yet unable to resist, unable to switch off, compelled to return again and again to a thing which gives no pleasure, assuages no need, is an illusion. Are you really that Strong Man who can use anyone at will, or are you being used, powerless to resist? You are like Jeannie and Laura, entrapped by the Goblins. (Do look at the link, it is beautiful.) I use the word “tranny” as in “I am a tranny” because I am free. It has no power to hurt me. I know I am worthy of self-respect, and no mere word, no easy judgment, can take that away from me. I have some concern because I know that the word is still used to hurt others, and it does in fact hurt my kind- so I object to Outsiders using it. Show respect. Hominem scias: recognise my humanity, so that you may recognise your own. Go on! Leave a Comment! Say hello! Paintings from Circé’s Art. You may also be interested in Tucking, about what pre-op trans women do with their penises, and how to fold away a penis and testicles so they present a feminine silhouette in a swimsuit. With pictures. 
trans – Page 48 – Clare Flourish