{"title": "Growth points?", "date": "Sat, 18 Aug 2012 05:00:19 +0000", "dateobj": "2012-08-18", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2012/08/18/growth-points/", "tags": ["new life", "trans", "acceptance", "emotional being", "personal growth"], "text": " I have had times over the past year\u00a0when I imagined that I had learned life lessons: that I do not need to be accepted as female, but am entitled to courtesy; that I can be my vulnerable self,\u00a0rather than hiding in my shell;\u00a0that I need to trust myself and the world, rather than be in fear; that I did not trust my feelings, but\u00a0if I could, then I can\u00a0mitigate the anger and fear I feel as a reaction to those feelings; that I need to forgive myself, all my decisions and the situation I have reached. How am I getting on with them? I first got out of my shell in February 1999, my spiritual awakening. I still struggle with that. Of course knowing that these practices are necessary does not mean that I may drop into them immediately and habitually. It is a year since I started blogging, thinking that I could see being transsexual as a blessing and that\u00a0that was Pupating;\u00a0and one main reason for writing here is to self-examine in public, to try and learn these lessons and take them into my heart, so I may face the World better. The great blessing was seeing how negative I was, and deciding to be positive, and that has worked through in other lessons since, including these. It has helped me to see how great my difficulties were. I spend a lot of time switched off, watching telly or playing on blogs, and that is OK. I think now I can say This, here, now, is a good place to be rather than \u201cThis has been a good place to be\u201d, lashing myself with Oughts. I still wrestle with thinking and feeling. I am female, and so I feel that I need to express myself female, and I was born with testicles, so I still passionately want to make intellectual sense of that, and\u00a0can\u2019t. Or, I still have a Why Me resentment of it, I have not yet accepted that so difficult part of my own self. Though now it is my non-acceptance, rather than the World\u2019s, here, now, that makes it so difficult for me. I spend more time in that situation I call Presence, primarily in my senses and aware of what is around me, and having thought that simply wonderful and a Spiritual Way, am exploring its value and the value of other ways of being, and how they might fit together. That is good and necessary work. On Spiritual healing: with no-one to practise on, I do on myself, and feel the heat in my hands.\u00a0Others may think me irrational or unChristian, but it feels right to me. On Karate, I watched the boxing in the Olympics with interest- how does he move his feet, how does he move around the ring? Before, I have found it disgusting. On blogging, I find I can make headlines italic, but not in other fonts, and when they appear in \u201ctop posts\u201d the html tag  is spelled out. A year ago, I wrote in my diary, \u201cIt is blessing to be transsexual. It is blessing to be me\u201d and today, Monday 13th, I wrote It is Blessing to be as feminine as I am, to have the depth of sensibility I have, even while being born with testicles. Is this any different? Am I merely ruminating? I think I am going deeper, working out the consequences, freeing myself at the right pace from the self-rejection and self-loathing. I really am two people (at least), the feminine response and the terrified suppression. I think I make progress, and if at the moment that blue text feels like a statement of faith which I need to grow to\u00a0accept even though it is so strongly foreshadowed in what I wrote a year ago, this is the process I want to go through, now. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 49 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}