{"title": "Transsexual children", "date": "Sat, 02 Jun 2012 05:00:12 +0000", "dateobj": "2012-06-02", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2012/06/02/child-transsexuals/", "tags": ["lgbt", "trans", "children", "David Reimer", "feminism", "Transactive", "transition"], "text": " David Reimer was born a boy, raised a girl, and tried to reclaim his manhood as a teen. When David Reimer was circumcised, his penis was so badly damaged that when he was 21 months old his parents agreed that his testicles should be removed, and he should be raised as a girl. He never accepted that, was nicknamed \u201ccavewoman\u201d at school, and aged 14 assumed a male gender role. In 2004, he shot himself in the head. Contrast Pasupatidasi\u00a0and her daughter Ziona. Ziona knows she is a girl, and loathes her penis and testicles, such that the thought of their removal puts her on cloud 9. It is likely that she will transition completely,\u00a0and the earlier the transition, the more likely she is to pass: consider Caroline Cossey,\u00a0Jenna Talackova and the model, Lea. I do not get objectified by the patriarchal culture for my looks. No, acceptance should not depend on passing. Unfortunately, it does, to a great extent.\u00a0Here, the mother tells something of what her daughter had to do to convince her. Sometimes gay people, in childhood, wonder if they are \u201creally\u201d of the other sex. There is a huge difference between gender identity- \u201cI am a girl\u201d- and questioning- \u201cAm I\u00a0a girl?\u201d\u00a0There are huge barriers for a child in stating gender identity different to that indicated by gonads. There is great difficulty for the parents accepting their child\u2019s statement, and great hostility from outside\u00a0when they do. So Transactive, supporting these parents and children, performs an essential role. It is possible that a parent is sick and twisted enough to so bully and manipulate\u00a0a\u00a0boy with testicles\u00a0that the child might even imagine he chooses to express himself as a girl because he is trans. But unlikely, even if he is gay. That child with testicles is a girl if she gets the puberty blocking treatment. It is just too difficult to get it otherwise. This does not prevent Bug Brennan from publishing a lurid attack on Transactive, accusing them of forcing gay children into transgender role from fundamentalist Christian motives to deny the existence of gay people, as in Iran. To her credit, Bug publishes Jenn Burleton\u2019s response. To her discredit, she does not take note of it. Another comment suggests that the parents are trying to make themselves out as brave, when they are manipulating the child. The feminine box girls are forced into, Disney Princess style, gets narrower and narrower.\u00a0A child should just be allowed to be\u00a0a tomboy. Well, yes, but not if the (child with a uterus) is actually a boy- such children need far more support, not benign neglect. So, it is all a horrible, extreme right Christian conspiracy. Tell that to Lefty Begone. For Lefty, science is clear, testicles means boy, uterus means girl, so the child who disagrees is a fantasist and his parents are creating a Democrat voter. And yet, despite this near-universal\u00a0condemnation of the parents as monsters who are torturing and maiming their children, and the children as fantasists or passive victims, despite all the hate, the children and parents working with Transactive carry on, many progressing to extremely successful transition. If that is not proof of the existence of gender identity separate from physical indications of gender, then nothing is. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 50 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}