{"title": "Trans people are marginalised people", "date": "Fri, 17 Nov 2017 00:00:26 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-11-17", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/11/17/marginalised-trans-people/", "tags": ["trans", "psychiatrist", "transition"], "text": " I have never shown my gender recognition certificate to anyone in order to prove entitlement to anything. I wanted it, and the legal status of \u201cwoman\u201d, but simply assert that I am, and did before I transitioned. When I saw a psychiatrist I got a wee form saying I suffered from gender identity disorder, and so should be allowed to use women\u2019s loos and changing rooms, but I never showed that either. I have not been in such a confrontation. I usually carry a credit card with my female name on it, but have never been challenged. The TERFs\u2019 paranoid fantasy about self-certification is that any man, even clearly male and dressed male, will be able to go into a women\u2019s lavatory without being challenged, there to prey on and victimise women, masturbate, fantasise sexually and attempt indecent photographs or even sexual assault. As far as I can see it is not just trans women they imagine doing this, but non-trans sexual perverts, who could not be challenged when they went into the Ladies\u2019 because they would simply state that they were trans women, with a perfect right to go there, and no-one could stop them. Well. When I first saw the psychiatrist, I was still presenting male most of the time, and when presenting male used men\u2019s loos. I would have been scared to go in the ladies\u2019. And while both sexes wear jeans, there are clear differences between the two kinds. Same with trainers, and short or long hair. Some of us wear women\u2019s jeans when presenting male, and I wore a women\u2019s shirt a few times, but still are presenting male and not in women\u2019s space. There are clear differences, and I wanted to appear female rather than ambiguous when expressing myself female. I was afraid of confrontation, so I carried that card. Of course they criticise us for an extreme stereotype of femininity- skirts and heavy makeup, more pink and satin-soft than most women would ever be, but why should they ever be consistent. It is not a realistic worry, I thought. When transitioning, I wanted to avoid scrutiny and feared mockery or worse. I had some horrible experiences of transphobic attack. I did not have the self-confidence to go in a women\u2019s loo dressed male. But then I thought, I could not sustain expressing female if I started to sleep rough. My wig would become unpresentable quicker than my clothes. Trying to keep warm, I would wear anything. This week, still Autumn, temperatures are forecast down to 3\u00b0. Trans people are extremely vulnerable. The demand that we dress to a particular standard, so that some people object to shoppers in night clothes in the local shop, is particularly onerous on us. I could manage that. I bought women\u2019s clothes in charity shops, but never wore them threadbare. I could pass as a member of ordinary civilised society. Rough sleepers, just like new transitioners, would want to avoid scrutiny, because they are likely to be hurt if noticed. Us normal people are a threat to them. Trans folk having difficulty finding work might not have much money to spend on presentation, or be able to afford electrolysis. And, forbidding men women\u2019s loos imposes a standard of acceptable passing on us. Does this trans woman look like a man dressed up, and if so should she be limited in a way trans women in stealth are not? No, I say, the right to transition should not depend on your looks. I want the apparent man to be able to use a women\u2019s loo, because I sympathise with the trans woman who cannot pass or cannot afford suitable clothes. Where is your sympathy? Of course I sympathise with women who have experienced sexual assault and are wary of men, but their rights might be reconciled with trans women\u2019s, if there is imagination and good will. Women\u2019s rights are not incompatible with trans rights. And trans folk are more likely to be marginalised than cis folk. We just are. Transition is the most important thing in the world to us. For marginalised trans folk, I want the right to express as the acquired sex. That may mean some people disapproving of how we look, just as people always have.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 6 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}