{"title": "Orthorexia", "date": "Mon, 20 Feb 2012 06:00:21 +0000", "dateobj": "2012-02-20", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2012/02/20/orthorexia/", "tags": ["being human", "trans", "anorexia", "Crippen", "cutting", "DSM 5", "orthorexia", "synaesthesia"], "text": " A woman in her late teens shuttled between two hospitals, being treated for anorexia. When she was brought physically in shape, she would be sent back to the mental hospital on the other side of the city. As there was\u00a0no coordination of treatment between the two, her condition was managed rather than treated, until she died of it. Perhaps with my life and eating being controlled by doctors, I would lose the will to live. Anorexia is a coping strategy. Often, people with anorexia will have other strategies, such as cutting- \u201ccutting\u201d is the word used by\u00a0many who have that coping strategy, \u201cself-harm\u201d is the word imposed by outsiders classifying them. If their cutting is treated too intrusively, they may reduce it, and turn to eating control instead. Anything for a quiet life. It is necessary to deal with the underlying issues, rather than the coping strategies which are symptoms of them. If I want to avoid certain foods because of ethical concerns, or for my own ideas about my own health, that is my concern. \u201cOrthorexia\u201d is\u00a0a word coined by doctors to describe such behaviour, implying that it is an\u00a0eating disorder characterised by a harmfully rigid adherence to particular dietary rules. It may be linked to obsessive compulsive disorder, they say. Honestly, doctors butting in all the time. These are ordinary coping strategies. Everyone is a little nuts, and it is as if these busybody doctors think alcohol was created for making sterilising wipes. Synaesthesia is a condition where the senses affect each other. So particular sounds may cause someone to see colours, or words may appear coloured. Olivier Messiaen had the condition, and used it in his music, such as Colours of the Celestial City. While it is not \u201cnormal\u201d in the sense that only a small proportion of the population have it, and arguably it is slightly maladaptive, as it is an additional way of perceiving the World as other than\u00a0it is, people with the condition generally are quite happy with it, so doctors can back off. No cure needed here, thank you. Transsexuality is a natural variation of the child in the womb, through which girls are born with testicles, and boys with ovaries. While it might please certain people with overly tidy minds to convince those boys that they really were girls, and their ovaries were the most important thing for deciding that, from the inside it feels like who I really am, my identity, is the most important thing. I am female. I would be less \u201ccured\u201d if I was made happy presenting male, because then I would not be me. So again, I think that the American Psychiatric Association, about to publish its fifth edition Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, can butt out. I am not mentally ill.\u00a0Perhaps DSM 5\u00a0could include\u00a0a diagnosis of psychotic pseudo-transsexuality, where there was a psychosis producing a delusion of transsexuality- but I am female, and my disorder was entirely physical. It was alleviated by genital correction surgery. I am not sure I particularly want screened against mental illness: I think the strain of transsexuality on a child might cause mental illness, rather than the other way round. I resent gender dysphoria being included in a manual of mental disorders, where it has no place. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 52 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}