A Hierarchy of Oppression
Mon, 24 Oct 2011 06:00:53 +0000
https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2011/10/24/the-hierarchy-of-oppression/
trans genderqueer intersex kyriarchy transphobia 
 This is a lovely hobby. I find blogs, leave comments, people find me, and I judge how well I am doing by the interest I generate in what I write: how many page views I have. So I commented on Nicky’s blog, and found I was getting a lot of page views from a blog called twanzphobia. That blog protests that almost all AMAB transfolk are perverts and dangerous to real women, and those who are not should get psychotherapy to accept their penises and gender non-conformity. To which I respond, if I choose to alter my body, that is none of their business. Show the proof that transsexualism is genetic, demands Twanzphobia. Easily done, just have a look on Wikipedia. More evidence is being discovered all the time. On a page called “tackle status”, saying whether AMAB trans bloggers had had the operation or not, Nicky wrote, “I found you another twanz blogger posted a comment on my blog. You may want to take a look at his so called woman like pictures” and Twanzmooselike (sic) replies “Nicky you poor thing. You must find better friends! How very sad this blogger thinks language can change the fact of his biology. Sex: Male.”  Actually, this is more ridiculous than offensive. Nicky is out as an intersex person. Some intersex folk look down on transsexual people. “No, we’re not weirdos like them,” they say, “we have a genuine physical condition”. Perhaps they feel threatened by bi-gendered society, and want to avoid the prejudice they experience from ignorant cis-sexuals. But the way to do it is not to collude with oppression of another group. I have heard similar comments from transsexual people. They say, “I am a transsexual woman, I have a physical condition, not like those transvestites at all. They are perverts, I have a medical condition.” Seeking to ally with thoughtless oppression, and thereby escape oppression yourself, increases oppression, draws attention to your own- abnormality, for want of a better word- and fails to prevent mockery. It is a way to increase your own fear, self-hatred and lack of worth. Nicky, I wish you could see the world as it is, not through the prism of your own spite, hatred, bile and pain. The suggestion that I should express myself as genderqueer rather than seeming to conform to the bi-gendered norm has little weight. I twist and play with gender all the time. So do a lot of straight cis-gendered people. And I do not need to justify my decisions to anyone. I express myself this way because I find it fulfilling. I express my liberation, which anyone may take for themselves.  
trans – Page 53 – Clare Flourish