{"title": "Bullying in Schools", "date": "Tue, 14 Nov 2017 00:00:07 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-11-14", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/11/14/bullying-in-schools/", "tags": ["politics", "spirituality", "trans", "Anglican", "bullying", "Daily Mail", "primary school"], "text": " The Church of England supports homophobic, biphobic and transphobic bullying in schools shock! It would not admit that- The church has just published \u201cValuing All God\u2019s Children\u201d, which says some lovely things. Justin Welby, Archbishop of Canterbury, said in the introduction, Every one of us is loved unconditionally by God. We must avoid, at all costs, diminishing the dignity of any individual to a stereotype or a problem. Church of England schools offer a community where everyone is a person known and loved by God, supported to know their intrinsic value. In the context, that means trans kids are accepted for who they are. The guidance, according to their press release, aims to prevent pupils from having their self-worth diminished or their ability to achieve impeded by being bullied because of their perceived or actual sexual orientation or gender identity. However, they quote Stonewall\u2019s research: 9% of trans pupils receive death threats at school. 46% of pupils hear transphobic language \u201cfrequently or often\u201d. 84% of trans pupils have self-harmed, 45% have attempted suicide, and 68% of LGBT pupils report that school staff only \u201csometimes\u201d, or never, challenge HBT language when they hear it. In the early years context and throughout primary school, play should be a hallmark of creative exploration. Pupils need to be able to play with the many cloaks of identity (sometimes quite literally with the dressing up box). Children should be at liberty to explore the possibilities of who they might be without judgement or derision. For example, a child may choose the tutu, princess\u2019s tiara and heels and/or the firefighter\u2019s helmet, tool belt and superhero cloak without expectation or comment. Childhood has a sacred space for creative self-imagining. Um. Not every child with gender diverse play is trans. The guidance is not clear on this. That should be general guidance, not guidance on HBT bullying. The language teachers use when they comment, praise or give instructions [should] avoid labels and assumptions which deem children\u2019s behaviour irregular, abnormal or problematic just because it does not conform to gender stereotypes or today\u2019s play preferences. In our highly gendered society, everyone needs that protection, not just trans kids. Tutus and tool belts, a memorable example, was picked out by the New York Times for its headline covering the matter. I hardly think the NYT would cover any other guidance by the Church of England to its schools, but trans stories, with the frisson of weirdness, get coverage. The Daily Mail rushed to a transphobic nutcase, or \u201cconservative Evangelical\u201d. What would she say? These rules are unkind, unloving and lacking in compassion. We are all against bullying, but the church is using these guidelines to pursue an agenda that runs counter to the church\u2019s teaching. We are getting to the point where if you are not careful, the slightest slip from the correct agenda in a Church of England school will get you punished. The anti-bullying agenda is aimed against people who step out of line \u2014 the anti-bullies are becoming the bullies. That is, she wants to stand up for children and adults who would enforce restrictive gender norms, and deny we are \u201cmade in the image of God\u201d, even by mockery, taunts and bullying. She gets reported in the Daily Mail and NYT. Grassroots Christians, including teachers and school staff, have HBT views on Christian Doctrine, and are self-righteous about that, banding together to protect their right to bigotry. The Church\u2019s report confirms that when it reports those statistics on bullying, teacher non-intervention, and self-harm. Possibly the Mail is looking for the controversy, in an attempt to make the story interest its readers, but it dredged up another homophobic windbag who said she and others long for clear and courageous biblical leadership, that is, they want bishops and press-releases to be as openly homophobic as they are. That bigot was recently on the Archbishop\u2019s Council- the bigotry is at the top and throughout the church. It is important that the church hierarchy says nice things, though perhaps they only do so to continue to get funding from the State. They could do more, but have not: We have not offered lesson plans or materials for physical, social, health and economic education (PSHE) or relationships and sex education (RSE), but the appendices do provide practical examples and templates for schools to use as they instigate anti-bullying policies and strategies. Meanwhile, little girls are discouraged from playing with superhero capes, in case they are thought to be unfeminine. It\u2019s insane. The report pdf.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 6 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}