{"title": "The Gender Diamond", "date": "Sat, 17 Sep 2011 05:45:17 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2011/09/17/the-gender-diamond/", "tags": ["being human", "trans", "cissexual", "gender", "Rafael Carter", "transgender"], "text": " We asked to be treated as women. So they told us how we should think and feel, and judged us on our appearance. And now it is liberating to see the Gender Diamond. An end to binary understandings of gender! Where are you on the Gender Diamond? As well as the spectrum male to female, there is the vertical axis, from polygendered to agendered. Remember that these\u00a0 matters may be distinguished from sexuality. For me this has been helpful, helping me to imagine other ways of being, and so imagine such other ways within myself, and feel how I respond to the thought, and so discern how I might be in myself. I think I may be different places in the diamond at different times, not because this is a role or mask I put on, but because that is my authentic way of responding in the moment. I feel I am more adept at permitting myself my own authentic way of being, rather than getting hung up on what is the right way to behave. (Of course, another way to imagine other ways of being is to observe and to seek to empathise with other people.) Is it also useful for cis-gendered (ie, non-transgendered) people? Possibly, of course, the gender diamond is not useful, even for me. Possibly the Male in me, which I am exploring at the moment, is no greater than in other women, normally and naturally. And if anyone thinks I am a man because of certain characteristics, he is too stupid to be convinced by this graphic. I would like to write about it for Wikipedia. The trouble is, a Wikipedia article is required to be Notable, and should not involve Original Research. Googling leads to no particular source, though two blogs link it to Raphael Carter, an author. As a published author, Carter may be sufficiently Notable, but I need a definite source. I heard about the Gender Diamond here. ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 55 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}