{"title": "Solving our problems", "date": "Mon, 06 Nov 2017 00:00:01 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-11-06", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/11/06/solving-our-problems/", "tags": ["being human", "politics", "trans", "bulimia", "meme", "transition"], "text": " Is trans in teenage girls a social contagion? Should their parents and the doctors save them from themselves? I thought I would ask an expert who has thought deeply about this. I read that Bulimia was a social contagion, that people started to suffer from the disease of bulimia when they read about it. -Well, we are a social species. Everything people do is a social contagion. It is so obvious when she puts it that way. Richard Dawkins coined the word \u201cmeme\u201d to mean an idea which people adopt not necessarily to their benefit. There might be aspects to the idea which make it long-lived. People find solutions to their problems. Eating disorders fulfil an emotional need, as cutting does. There are clearly bad contagious ideas, such as the Bridgend suicide outbreak. That people in your town- you may know them, or have common acquaintances- kill themselves makes the idea more possible. It gets rid of the problems of being a young person, but also gets rid of all the possible solutions, the creativity of the individual. There are solutions from medical experts. Should a very large person have bariatric surgery, reducing the size of their stomachs? Some people think it wonderful, some think it \u201cmutilation\u201d. It means you can never eat a full meal again, so have to eat several times a day. It cannot be reversed. People have difficulty absorbing vitamins, and may have severe pain. So bariatric surgery replaces your problems with a whole new set- just like my trans surgery has sorted my discomfort, at a cost. Yes. And what if the research on gut flora yields results? Some people put on weight because of the way they absorb food or hormonal feedback to the brain not properly telling them they are satiated. If such problems were solved medically, people would still comfort-eat, but would not put on weight the same way. Should the deaf child of deaf parents have cochlear implants? she asks. Well, I think in sound. I have no mind\u2019s eye, but a subtle mind\u2019s ear, able to hear an orchestra in my head. I take in information through sound. I think, of course the child should, but recognise some such parents object. So the medical establishment says the child should have the operation, and the parents refuse because Deaf culture is a beautiful thing, and this will remove the child from Deaf culture. The child may still be part of Deaf culture, loving their parents and learning Sign, but if the parents refuse the surgery the child may come to resent that; but if there are not enough deaf children, the subgroup may cease to exist. Solutions to our problems are chosen by the individual, and suggested or opposed by the family or the wider society. Being a teenage girl is difficult. How much easier to be a man! Well, there is misogyny. Bariatric surgery is mutilation, she says, but it might stop you getting spat at in the street. The hatred and mockery is wrong, and an ideal society would not fat-shame, or slut-shame, but in this world they do and finding a way to avoid that is a good thing. Transition takes away certain problems and replaces them with others. Some people regret it. Parents and carers oppose it, valuing what the teenager does not- fertility damaged by testosterone, the natural body. \u201cNatural body\u201d- Ha! Impossible! Every action and choice changes our bodies. Chest masculinisation surgery changes it more quickly and radically. The problems we face exhibit our creativity and determination. Once I saw a man roll up to his car, get himself and his wheelchair into it, and drive off- swinging about like a gymnast, quickly and efficiently. I was impressed, and he might prefer fully functioning limbs. Alison Lapper gets around independently in an adapted car. Technology gets her wheelchair in and out. That\u2019s more expensive, but it works for her. I want to gather everyone like a hen gathers her chicks. I want those who regret saved from transition, and those who strongly believe medical transition is necessary to access that. I want reconciliation between trans and terfs, though the positions are so extreme. And if this desire came from giving emotional support and care to my mother, from before I could remember- surely a bad thing, a demand on me before I was ready for it, which has hurt me life long- is that care, compassion and desire for their good and their happiness not still Beautiful? Not necessarily- or, Yes, and No; but that is quite a long argument in itself. Lucy wants to get beyond binaries. Negative and positive thinking, male and female, trans and cis. Even \u201cNon-binary\u201d is a failure, because it differentiates itself from Binary. What transcends this? The Tao, perhaps. Flow.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 6 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}