{"title": "Breathing space", "date": "Sun, 25 Feb 2018 00:00:51 +0000", "dateobj": "2018-02-25", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2018/02/25/breathing-space/", "tags": ["politics", "trans", "feminism", "Mumsnet", "TERF"], "text": " I need space to survive, and being trans restricts that. I need to be able to move through the world, with a home to live in, means of transport, meaningful work, streets I can walk down without fear, places I can go for help, ways of participating in social life. As I am trans I may face hostility, prejudice and discrimination limiting me. If I am out I will need lavatories. I do not assert a right to be in any of these spaces. It feels as if I am there on sufferance, on the toleration of other people which is never guaranteed and may be withdrawn at any time. I did not find another way of being. I tried to make a man of myself, to fit cultural masculinity because it seemed that otherwise I would be shunned. Then I found the delight of being my true self in the gay village in Manchester, and it seemed possible to be who I am as a trans woman, as a transsexual as I called it at the time. \u201cI am not a man,\u201d I wept, meaning that cultural masculinity did not fit me. It never seemed possible to live openly as a pansy, or soft male. I thought soft men were gay. My father, who might have been my pansy role model, used the word as an insult. He was my role model in hiding my softness away. I fit into the world as a \u201ctrans woman\u201d, mostly suffered or tolerated with some mockery, misunderstanding, hostility. Even with the hostility it is better than presenting male. Society tolerates me in women\u2019s spaces. I use women\u2019s loos and changing rooms. If gender neutral space- clothes shops, toilets, shelters- is to be carved out, a lot more people will have to identify as gender neutral than currently identify as trans. I am gender critical. Gender is cultural, and not somehow related to evolved sex characteristics. After the Sex Disqualification (Removal) Act we see that women can work as barristers and solicitors as well as men, and increasingly we see women in STEM. Women can vote without going insane, contradicting concerns expressed before 1918. Gendered responses are strongly conditioned in our society, enforced by most people from small children up. A man in a pink shirt was told he would have to give up his \u201cman card\u201d. Gender is orthogonal to sex, ideally: Jung said men must discover their anima, or inner feminine, and women their animus, and was right, but it is such a struggle achieved so late in life because of that conditioning. Mumsnet TERFs started paying attention to my blog, and I have had 186 clicks from there, hundreds more page views. More people read such threads than comment on them, but the commentary on me is hostile. They judge me. I wrote on autogynephilia to show it cannot exist, but my words were used as proof of it. I hope I might have persuaded some who read without commenting, but they are interested in trans issues and reading TERF threads so it\u2019s not certain. They say, It is an issue of men\u2019s right not to be inconvenienced.  AGP actively impedes the ability to empathize with women. The issue is that I\u00a0 need space. I am excluded, and they seek to exclude me further. If I see distress or hostility, my instinct is to back away, to seek a work-around rather than to provoke. I am empathising. I am there, due to forces I cannot control. They doubt I am gender critical: being gender critical means conceptualising gender as an external imposition, not a spiritual identity. I don\u2019t understand how a MiT can call themselves a gender critical feminist\u2026 Without gender surely we remain with biology \u2013 a man being male and a woman being female? I observe that people have gender, just that it does not correlate with sex. It is part of human variation. I object to procrustean attempts to constrain gender expression, not gender expression itself. I observe that there is a great deal of unthinking enforcement of gender, and ways to subvert it: trans and non-binary, \u201cgender-critical feminist\u201d as an identity, building resistance, and attempts such as Natasha Devon\u2019s challenging of stereotypes. She was the former \u201cmental health tsar\u201d and spoke to the Girls Schools Association conference- she has platforms.\u00a0 The comments on this thread show thoughtful support and mindless hostility. There is movement. How can gender stereotypes be subverted from where we are now? Partly through visible trans folk, living out our radical rejection of the gender norms fitting our birth sex. When I see gender neutral space, I will go there. One says, Not every male has a sexual motive for transition (ie, gay males wanting to sleep with straight men aka HSTS, third gender etc; straight males getting off on feminine presentation aka AGP). There are some people with catastrophic body dysmorphia and some people who are genuinely in retreat from masculinity. But these people have nothing whatsoever to do with transactivism or transactivists and the reason we don\u2019t hear from them is not that they\u2019re the silent majority \u2013 it\u2019s that the population is tinier than tiny.  She understands that body dysmorphia and being unManly are motivations, but divides the motivations into discrete categories, so that anyone who has ever been aroused can\u2019t be in that \u201ctinier than tiny\u201d group. But no-one will transition M-F unless they feel themselves unManly. (Tell me a better word- \u201ceffeminate\u201d really isn\u2019t it.) I am so sad that this has made me feel less compassion for trans people. I am sorry for them but I\u2019m angry that their cause has been hijacked by cross dressing men\u2026 But I think I want to develop a \u2018we don\u2019t negotiate with terrorists\u2019 stance. The trouble is that we have made a zero-sum game together. If she sees the problem as men in women\u2019s space, I am in unwilling confrontation because I have nowhere else to go. The problem is, The Patriarchy. The problem is, gender conformity and gender enforcement. These problems we could attack together, but for the zero-sum game. I managed to peak trans them [centre-left 30 something blokes] instantly with the sports issue. That is, Hannah Mouncey using masculine size competing against other women. They are \u201clive and let live\u201d people, like anyone they don\u2019t show hatred for minorities easily, but she managed to make them hostile, and exults in this. Competitive female cyclists are far faster than I am. It isn\u2019t relevant for most trans women. Some people go to Mumsnet to radicalise themselves, then go out to radicalise others.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Clare Flourish"}