{"title": "Changing gender", "date": "Sat, 30 Sep 2017 00:00:44 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-09-30", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/09/30/changing-gender/", "tags": ["lgbt", "politics", "trans", "GRC", "law", "transition"], "text": " Who would want a gender recognition certificate, anyway? I did. I was more or less OK with the law calling me a \u201cman\u201d. I had a passport and driving licence which indicated I am a woman. I was not thinking of marriage or civil partnership. But when the law offered the chance to be declared a \u201cwoman\u201d, I wanted it. I can\u2019t think of any way it affects my legal rights. It makes me almost certain to go to a women\u2019s prison if imprisoned, but I have not committed that sort of offence. Should someone with a penis be sent to a women\u2019s prison? It is a grey area. Whichever prison we go to, we are going to have a tough time. In the cause of protecting themselves against us, people are violent towards us. If a trans woman has committed a violent crime, she is capable of violence; and if she has transitioned before she was charged, and wants to go there, I would send her to a women\u2019s prison. If she were violent or threatening there, I would subject her to prison discipline- though that requires a sufficient number of prison officers. Now, under the gender recognition act, I needed to show I had lived as a woman for two years, which I proved with wage slips, and I needed to show I was likely to live as a woman for the rest of my life. The evidence required for that was letters from two doctors, one on an approved list of specialists. I am not faking this, or trying to prove a point. I am sincere. This is my life. Under the consultation, which has not yet opened, Proposals to streamline and de-medicalise the process for changing gender will be part of a broad consultation of the legal system that underpins gender transition. Why should I need a doctor\u2019s diagnosis? Why should I need any written evidence beyond my bare assertion that I am a trans woman, and I intend to live as a woman for the rest of my life? To stop anyone getting a GRC insincerely, and to protect others from us, if we might harm them. Provisions on evidence and length of time have to be justified, but can be if a good case can be made that people would be harmed. There might be policy on trans women in women\u2019s prisons. Any restriction is subject to Human Rights challenges. I tend to feel we should be placed in women\u2019s prisons and the system should work to prevent violence, by us or against us. That depends on having sufficient prison officers. Perhaps there could be restrictions on getting a GRC, for people who had been in prison or charged with an imprisonable offence. Prisoners seeking gender transition have psychological assessment, and also have hormones. Taking hormones would deter most men. I feel most men would not like to sign a form saying that they are women. I doubt anyone has had a second GRC for a reversion. I would have heard of it. It would have been reported. Google would find it. People do not transition lightly. Another suggestion was that men go to great lengths to get into women\u2019s refuges. Well, former partners whom women have fled often try hard to track them down, and sometimes the refuge\u2019s security fails; but I don\u2019t see how a GRC, and the attempt to prove he needs domestic violence services, would help a man find his former partner. So there are a lot of scare tactics about theoretically possible, highly unlikely scenarios where a determined man might lie to get a GRC then use it to attack women. There are so many other ways men can attack women, without all that effort, why bother? The advantage we gain is that we would no longer have a long drawn out, expensive, intrusive and humiliating procedure in order to get a GRC. There is no real cost to anyone in granting self-certification. None.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 8 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}