{"title": "Gender and sexuality", "date": "Sat, 23 Sep 2017 00:00:39 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-09-23", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/09/23/gender-and-sexuality/", "tags": ["being human", "lgbt", "trans", "gender"], "text": " I read a gay man conflating his gender and his sexuality. He said that all his interactions with other people were influenced by his sexuality. It made him a good nurse, non-threatening to vulnerable people and unobtrusively efficient in caring. His sexuality suffused his whole character. This was several years ago, when homophobia was normal in large sections of society. His was a winsome way of appearing non-threatening, as well as a courageous coming out. He also made his sexuality acceptable, part of everyday life rather than some weird exotic perversion. It is a tactic that could win over a thoughtful conservative, brought up to see \u201chomosexuality\u201d as disgusting. We would say gender and sexuality are completely different. Gender is not sexuality, because lesbians can be femme. Trans women\u2019s idiosyncrasy is a matter of gender, not sexuality, so the word \u201cTranssexual\u201d is no longer acceptable, and it is nothing to do with sexual desire (because female embodiment fantasies are so shameful). Gender and sexuality are different aspects of being human. I want to conflate them again. I relate to a partner as my whole self. My sexuality is not some abstruse, separate part of me which I get out only with partners or potential partners but part of my way of relating to anyone. Some people may preserve professional detachment, I never managed it, but if in the office I sought to put people at ease I would reveal my humanity, which means my personality. Transition is not a sex thing, we say. I do not transition because I have a particular sexuality, but because I have a female gender identity. I am female rather than male. This does not mean I can bear children, and transition means I cease to be able to father them. What does it mean? There is no gift, talent or virtue which one sex has and the other does not. Feminists observe that their gift of leadership may be rejected by men, and even by other women, and call that an aspect of Patriarchy, a system of oppression. I observe that gifts are more valued in one sex than the other, and different ways of being or expression are welcomed, tolerated or deprecated in each, and therefore I am culturally a woman, seen by my culture as a woman because I fit the ways of being and expression welcomed in women by my culture. Though it is normal, and normative, for a woman to be attracted to men, and I am not. But for that man, his gayness was part of his essence, which also made him a good nurse. Being a nurse is good. Therefore being him, which includes being gay, is good. Being a nurse is good for a woman and bad for a man is a social norm he does not recognise or value. Being like me is right for a woman and wrong for a man is disputed, and why should I assent to it? Because it relieves social pressure, but now I say the cost is too great. I always wanted to fit in, so I transitioned, because I thought I could accept myself and yet fit in. It did not work. It is my sexuality. It is the way I relate to others and express myself. My gender is feminine, not \u201cwoman\u201d.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 9 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}