{"title": "Reconciling trans and terfs", "date": "Mon, 18 Sep 2017 00:00:14 +0000", "dateobj": "2017-09-18", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/09/18/reconciling-trans-and-terfs/", "tags": ["politics", "trans", "feminism", "TERF"], "text": " We could start to reconcile trans folk and gender-critical feminists by asking- what do we have in common? We are gender diverse, and this means we are oppressed. We have a common oppressor, the conservatives seeking to enforce gender norms and the ordinary people unthinkingly reinforcing gender norms. We are hurting, and angry. We have a lively sympathy for those hurt in the same way, and a desire to support them, stop the hurt and condemn the causes of the hurt. There are similarities in the way we are hurt, even though there are differences both sides feel are important. Each side hurts the other. There is the tragedy. How to move forward? By recognising that the other group is not the main enemy or main source of oppression, and that the other side is hurt too. We are all gender-diverse, because we do not fit into, and we oppose, restrictive gender conventions. That is what feminism is. Both sides do what we do and are what we are, and get slapped down for it. Then it becomes the most important thing in the world for us. I want you not to be hurt is the moment of reconciliation. There are apparent zero-sum games in this- can trans women come into women\u2019s space?- which are difficult, and need to be set to one side while we see how we hurt each other, and how to protect each other. Non-conforming men and women are those who least fit the gender stereotype. We should recognise that the other exemplifies those human characteristics we feel least fitting and most oppressive, which we resist as strongly as we can. That is, we revolt each other. The gender-critical feminist looks at me and thinks, that is not what a woman is, or should be, but a grotesque caricature of the worst aspects of clich\u00e9 femininity. The answer is to see why I do as I do: because I am gender diverse. I would not present as this femme stereotype if it were not the best approximation I can find for who I really am. The imaginative leap I ask of them is to concentrate on what we have in common, not what divides us. The gender-critical feminist is revolted by the idea of mutilating women\u2019s bodies, but needs to see that it works. If T breaks the trans man\u2019s voice and gives him facial hair, then he has chest masculinisation surgery, people really do see him and treat him differently. Ideally that would not be necessary: we would value everyone\u2019s gifts and strengths, and support everyone\u2019s weaknesses; but with the world as it is, the trans man pays a price he is willing to pay, and is freed from gendered oppression. Trans folk need to recognise the basic idea of radical feminism, that it is not reproductive roles that determine gender differences, but culture. There is no masculine or feminine virtue or vice which the other sex does not share. Men often have greater strength, but in post-industrial economies strength is less and less relevant. Gender-critical feminists need to recognise how difficult that is for us. I want to express my feminine side. That is condemned. I am hurt, and I hide it, seeking to please others- a personality trait which in other circumstances would be positive, but here is poisonous. The doctors give us a way out: I suffer from \u201cgender dysphoria\u201d, and they name the appropriate treatment, of hormones and surgery. When I am not able to express my soft, yielding feminine self, \u201cI am a woman\u201d becomes my means of defence. Society has dictated a narrow path for us. An AMAB child can wear a dress to school, if they call themself a girl and wear girl\u2019s clothes all the time. The answer is to cease segregating children\u2019s clothes between girls\u2019 and boys\u2019, as John Lewis wants to, and to recognise that the clothes are a symbol for the personality or nature of the child which the child wishes to express, rather than the true gender itself. All boys should wear dresses sometimes, to see what it feels like and whether they like it. I sought to be poisoned and mutilated because that was the way I could justify and realise expressing my real self. It comes at a cost, but it works. I don\u2019t think I am getting far with these ideas of reconciling gender-critical feminists and trans folk because I am asking more of them than of us. But- let us devote our energies to our common enemy! I started this post because of a squalid little scuffle between TERF and trans, described here. Why was the alleged victim filming, and why did she have someone in a headlock? Why were there no charges? The New Statesman makes her out to be a victim, and this blog post just about calls her a Nazi. There must be a better way.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 9 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}