{"title": "Whisky, newly distilled", "date": "Mon, 21 Aug 2017 00:00:36 +0000", "link": "https://clareflourish.wordpress.com/2017/08/21/whisky-newly-distilled/", "tags": ["being human", "spirituality", "trans", "Quaker", "television", "that", "Yearly meeting"], "text": " I drew myself as the Sun, shining. The words in my mind were Strength, Beauty, Right: I am right, righteous, I have rights, I am rightly made. This is the world I evolved in, and I fit it. Now I cannot understand the notes I took, but it was something about being the cat which low status people choose to kick: I imagine that poor transphobe thinking, \u201cI may be going to prison but at least I\u2019m not a pervert like that.\u201d His attack comes from his own need, because he cannot see me as I am, only as he has been taught to see me, as a way of controlling any effeminacy in him. Because it is not about me, his attack need not affect me. I can let it go. All my emotions are Right, or Appropriate. They are not always comfortable (here I am moving from appreciation to judgment- comfortable only for the ego, not the real self). I trust what comes up in myself. I trust what comes up in the World. I do not have all the answers, but I have the ability to find them. It is whisky, newly distilled, the first fire of it. Seeing my God-self is wonderful, and I need to learn to be comfortable in my new skin. I will reach a mature appreciation, different from this amazed delight. And it is True. I am Right, and I need merely appreciate that. That was two weeks ago, and I am building on it. It was at Yearly Meeting Gathering, the Experiment with Light. I saw myself as God made me, beautiful and Right, without the ego-self which one creates to try to survive. Now, since then, I am seeing that ego-self more clearly, clutching its filthy rags about itself, and how poorly it serves me. Also at YMG was a Singalong showing of Frozen. \u201cHow can she be seen as some sort of Feminist icon, with those big eyes and hair and princess dress?\u201d she asked, and I thought, meet us half way. Those are not ideal, but seeing her characteristic which everyone else has seen as a curse, accepting it and rejecting their judgment, is strong and beautiful. It\u2019s funny how some distance Makes everything seem small And the fears that once controlled me Can\u2019t get to me at all It\u2019s time to see what I can do To test the limits and break through No right, no wrong, no rules for me, I\u2019m free! \u201cThat perfect girl is gone\u201d- how we are taught to idolise the ego-self, which is never \u201cperfect\u201d, but enslaving. She has some self-doubt, wanting to do the right thing, willing to self-sacrifice rather than hurt, so inhibited from fighting back. And (spoilers) the act of true love which saves the younger princess is not True Love\u2019s Kiss by the Prince, who turns out to be a bad lot, but an act of bravely defending her sister. I love Top of the Lake- China Girl. Episode 4 shows how Puss, the egocentric, psychotic parasite, has enslaved Mary. She loves him, completely. He has first charmed and flattered her, fooling her into seeing him as an intellectual with an understanding of her parents\u2019 hypocrisies by mocking them; he has convinced her that the prostitutes are somehow in the \u201cReal World\u201d which her parents avoid, so appealing to her teenage idealism. With mature adults he can only be a disgusting jester, his pretensions seen through, so he preys on a teenager. He rewards her servility with kindness or kisses, a facsimile of Love, and as he has reeled her in he gives less and she, desperately, gives more. I believe in his power to degrade her. She feels he is wise, teaching her about life, and so tolerates being more and more humiliated. He says \u201cI am going to hit you in the face\u201d and does so, and such is his power that she almost accepts even that. I hope with the failed blow job she has realised how poisonous he is; she needed to reach rock bottom before realising that, because she now thinks herself a fool for being reeled in by him, and few people could admit that to themselves easily. How happy I felt when you said my song was \u201cfantastic\u201d! And after, when you dismissed my verses, I only recited more, desperate to be affirmed again. You are no psychopath. I love your bravery, intelligence, courage, fierceness, how you can feel such fear and do it anyway. Knowing you enriches me. I don\u2019t think you reeled me in, or have wronged me in any way; it is my own response to you. I felt it when I first saw you, so I would have to control\u00a0how you walk into a room if I thought you really had wronged me, and if I controlled you you would be nothing, rather than the glorious human being you are. You used me as a confidant, making me feel valued- it is an exchange, I like to feel my listening reduces pain. And you will never meet me half way. Trans men, \u201cbiological females,\u201d are victims. How awful that she felt she had to cut off her breasts to escape the prison of femininity. Trans women, biological males, are perverted exhibitionists, getting a sexual thrill from fooling others into thinking we are women. So you say. I cannot be a victim, only a perpetrator, for you, as a biological male, even though you claim toxic masculinity oppresses all men. You loathe my performed femininity, that way I curve my hand, though none of this is conscious. To me, it seems it is just me. Still, I tried to please you. I am continually surprised. How can you not appreciate me? Well, you don\u2019t. The arrogance in me made me continually expect better, and my low self-esteem, the flip side of my arrogance, made me accept the taunts. Only seeing Mary weeping in her birth-mother\u2019s arms, surely having finally realised how damaging Puss is for her and what a fool she has been, or what a human she has been, so different from her conception of herself- She weeps and escapes. I must follow her example.  ", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 10 \u2013 Clare Flourish"}