{"title": "Thinking About the #Trans100 in Critique and Celebration", "date": "Tue, 09 Apr 2013 18:39:10 +0000", "link": "https://radicallyqueer.wordpress.com/2013/04/09/thinking-about-the-trans100-in-critique-and-celebration/", "tags": ["activism", "trans", "#trans100", "trans 100", "transgender"], "text": "I\u2019ve been seeing a lot of social media attention today to the release of The Trans 100, a list which I\u2019m honored to be a part of along with many friends, colleagues, and personal heroes. Much of the attention is congratulatory and positive, some is focused more on who\u2019s not on the list. And I think that both of those things are great. The spirit of the list, as I understand it, is to highlight all the amazing work that is done in our community: to use the 100 people on the list not as an exclusive club but as one handful of examples of people who have done great work in the past year to support trans lives in the US in myriad ways. The idea is to shift the conversation from focusing only on deaths and violence to adding a sense of celebration to our need to mourn those lost. Working in \u201ctransland,\u201d as I sometimes call the movement, can be a paradox, as we are so often simultaneously trying to promote and celebrate the work we do as proud trans people while at the same time realizing that the work we do is focused on eliminating huge discrepancies and barriers, on reducing tremendous hate and violence. It can be an odd intersection at which to work sometimes (how do we get excited about a victory that means we are simply more likely to be alive, employed, or healthy at a baseline?), and I believe that it is crucial we never lose sight of both sides of that story\u2013and of the other discrepancies that too often divide success from discrimination and violence along race, class, and ability lines. I am happy about this list because it wide-ranging and it shows our collective power and ability to do great things in the face of adversity. I\u2019m glad to see many POC on the list, a nice range of local activists, to see those doing cultural work alongside those doing legal and political advocacy. I\u2019m glad that there are many lesser-known names, and that online activists have been included alongside on-the-ground grassrootsers. Though I\u2019m thrilled to see my NCTE colleagues Mara and Harper Jean recognized, I\u2019m also cheering hardcore for those who work with such amazing small radical projects as the Brown Boi Project, the Audre Lorde Project, Planet DeafQueer, and Transformative Justice Law Project. There are too many of my own heroes to name here, and also too many whose work I must. research. NOW. So while I\u2019d like to see even more underrecognized folks on the list, more people of color, sex workers, people with disabilities, etc., I\u2019m applying my critiques to a tone of celebration today. We have this list and it has some attention and hopefully that attention will lead to what we really need\u2013more people nominating next year, more people volunteering to work on the project, an even more diverse and inclusive list. I\u2019m excited to see who made the various breakout groups that will be released in coming months, and I look forward to working with this great big kickass community to achieve things that are bigger and better every year. I\u2019m glad that my friends and colleagues are the kinds of people who recognize gaps in such a list and will bring them to light, because it makes us all better. \u00a1Viva la revoluci\u00f3n trans!", "feedtitle": "trans \u2013 Page 2 \u2013 Radically Queer"}