{"title": "To be or to love", "date": "Wed, 21 Feb 2018 17:27:39 +0000", "dateobj": "2018-02-21", "link": "https://beardedgenderqueer.wordpress.com/2018/02/21/to-be-or-to-love/", "tags": ["The Why", "Feelings", "femme", "Lesbian", "transition", "women"], "text": "My deepest truth is that I have never been able to disentangle my desire to be with women from my desire to be a woman. I have always been most comfortable in the company of women and had a hard time connecting to masculinity. The only men I have been able to get close to are the ones who are more effeminate in their interests and presentation as well. As a kid and as an adult I frequently find myself being the only non-woman in a classroom or workplace, especially since I work in a career path that is 95% women. And now, as I prepare to take feminizing hormones, I find myself having to come to grips with that fact once more. For the past few years I have entertained the fantasy that I am queer enough to date across the full gender spectrum. But if I\u2019m being honest with myself I can look back and realize that beyond the trends of convenience there is the sad fact that I just don\u2019t connect as deeply with masculine people. As much as I love my transmasculine siblings, I don\u2019t have the same chemistry with them as I do with femmes. And I always feel terribly awkward around cis men and out of place in gay male culture. I\u2019ve frequently joked about being a lesbian to cover up the fact that I desperately wish I could truly be considered one. And when I think about transition, this is really the biggest thing that draws me to doing a more binary route. My femininity has always been about how I relate and want to relate to women, not about my relationship to men. Which I think is why I\u2019ve always been drawn to feminist circles even when that was highly taboo for my culture. As terrible as the world is around us, the part that saddens me the most is the bigots within our own movement who seek to exclude people like me \u2013 the TERFs (Trans Exclusionary \u201cRadical Feminists\u201d). I can kinda understand why the world at large has a hard time wrapping its head around me and how I defy categories. But for a group of people who spend so much time thinking about gender and the constructs surrounding it to pretend like it is so impermeable that I can never cross that threshold really does hold me back. I desperately want to be included in everything as \u201cone of the girls\u201d but I know that no matter how hard I fight, I can never pass enough to do so. I am so grateful for my friends who have made conscious efforts at inclusivity. I recently was invited to a gaming group that a friend expanded to include women and femmes. And every time someone lumps me in with a group that is primarily women I get warm fuzzy feelings. Does this mean that I am a trans woman and genderqueer is just a waypoint on my journey? I honestly don\u2019t know. What I do know is that I can only take it one step at a time. I am excited to start estrogen and see what effect that has on my brain and my body. A lot of the things people talk about experiencing are already commonplace for me like the readily accessible emotions, the frequent crying, and the mood cycles. So if I am already like this without hormones, what will that look like? Who knows. Maybe I will eventually become the lesbian I\u2019ve always dreamed of being.", "feedtitle": "Blog \u2013 The Bearded Genderqueer"}