Our Month in Review: January 2018
Sat, 03 Feb 2018 20:34:50 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2018/02/03/our-month-in-review-january-2018/
All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming HRC LGBTQ Month In Review Orange County parenting Ulta 
 Following are highlights from our month on Instagram. Click here for all of the months’ pictures, thoughts and happenings.  Let’s face it. I’ll never be as cool as this kid.   Just some logo-inspired art CJ did for our friends HRC to thank them for their help and support during the James Woods Debacle of 2017.   “I like wearing this hat because, number one, it has llamas on it. And, number two is the best of all, I feel like I have long braids hanging down.” — CJ, age 10   “My heart is beating so fast! I’m so excited!,” CJ squealed as we drove to Ulta Beauty to spend the $50 gift card Uncle Michael gave him for Christmas. He says he’s going to spend the rest of the day doing makeup and using his new straightening iron. Who’s coming over for a free makeover? He wants to order in Thai food and I’ll supply the wine.   My glam squad is getting me ready for the Golden Globes. My look is unicorn inspired with a touch of mermaid and a dash of sparkle. UPDATE: This look apparently requires several types of highlighter liberally applied. Over and over again.   When I was about CJ’s age I was obsessed with The Babysitter’s Club series. Ob-sessed. I was such a freaking Kristy, but longed to be artistic and exotic like Claudia. And urban and mature like Stacey. Seeing CJ reading this book makes my heart smile. “The kids at school are going to say it’s a girls book and babysitting is for girls,” he pointed out. We both just rolled our eyes and went back to our respective books.   “This is great lighting. Take my picture. And I’ll give you my ‘what you’re saying to me is bullshit face’.” — CJ, age 10 Maybe I should be discouraging his use of profanities. Maybe I should be discouraging having a “I’m not interested in your bullshit” facial expression in his arsenal. But, the truth is, he’s used that look a few times when it was necessary. When someone was saying something about his gender expression. And I was proud. CJ will be 11 this week. His confidence is growing. He’s sure of who he is. He’s a wonder.   Friends who try out new slime recipes together, stay together. CJ met this new friend only a few months ago, but the connection was instant. They like to jump on the trampoline, swim, craft and create. They giggle nonstop. Seriously. Nonstop. When they grow up they are going to be interior designers and go into business together. The best part? We love the friend’s entire family. How refreshing is it when you find your people?   Can I get an “amen” up in here?     