The Scariest Monster My Son Can Think Of
Tue, 28 Oct 2014 19:00:30 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2014/10/28/the-scariest-monster-my-son-can-think-of/
All Posts 2nd Grade gender creative gender nonconforming Halloween LGBTQ Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Second Grade The Disco Monster 
 Quick! Guess which one is C.J.’s! I hope you guys are ready for some serious spookiness, because in C.J’s class they were given a Mad Libs style story about a monster. They had to dream up the scariest monster they could imagine and fill in the nouns, verbs, adjectives and adverbs to create a truly terrifying tale. Then, they were given a drawing of Frankenstein’s monster and they had to color it to represent their monster, as well as a step-sheet to drawing it again to add to the easy and cool things to draw collection for them. I saw some of the monsters created by C.J.’s classmates. They were Horrible Monsters, Terrible Monsters, Scary Monsters, Angry Monsters and Mean Monsters. And, then there was C.J.’s…The Disco Monster. The Disco Monster By: C.J., Grade 2 The Disco Monster The Disco Monster crept out of the swamp on its roller skates. Its skin was very bright! Its eyes were very blue and its teeth were very small. It had a humongous black afro and it was covered in gum! The Disco Monster pulled itself along the ground slowly toward the happy children playing in the park. It had not eaten in days and its stomach was very crazy. The children were from C.J.’s second grade class. The creature is very fond of fresh second graders. He likes them for breakfast, because they are never terrible. The boys are hungry and a little scared. The girls are always scared and screaming. The creature’s eyes detected some third graders. He will have a few crazy third graders for dessert. The creature was outsmarted by C.J.’s second grade class. They are so smart. They tricked him into going back into the Disco Gum Swamp by running around it. He chased them and fell in the sticky gum swamp. C.J.’s second grade class cheered and clapped with excitement, for they know that if you use your smart brain, then you can always win. “The Disco Monster has a humongous black afro and lipstick and gum on his face.” — C.J. “The Disco Monster’s blazer is rainbow and patchwork with glitter and covered in gum.” — C.J. “The best part about The Disco Monster is his roller skates. His afro is the number two best part.” — C.J.   