C.J. Returns To Palm Springs…Finally
Thu, 23 Oct 2014 04:08:05 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2014/10/22/c-j-returns-to-palm-springsfinally/
All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Katy Perry LGBTQ Orange County Palm Springs parenting PS Glam Raising My Rainbow 
 Since his first trip there in May of 2011, Palm Springs has been C.J.’s favorite destination. He refers to it fondly as the “the place with the rainbow flags.” We kept C.J. away from his town for much too long. So, a few weeks ago, we surprised C.J. and Chase by picking them up early from school and heading to Palm Springs. C.J. squealed with delight the entire way there. “Did you pack some of my dresses?” he asked as we drove. “Yes.” “My lip gloss?” “Yes.” “My nightgown?” “Yes.” “My leave in conditioner?” “Yes.” And so it went, on and on during the two-hour drive. We stayed at a truly fabulous house owned by one of my readers. The house is called, fittingly for C.J., Palm Springs Glam — or PS Glam for short.  C.J. has decided that when he grows up he is going to move to Palm Springs and live in the PS Glam House. He is not concerned what the home’s owners think of his plans. Until he’s ready to leave our un-glam home, he’d like to have a PS Glam inspired bedroom. He refers to PS Glam as if it is it’s own interior design style. Waiting for us in the fridge were a dozen rainbow cupcakes from Over The Rainbow Desserts. I scored major points when I let the boys (and Matt) eat them not only for dessert, but for breakfast too.  These pictures hung in the room C.J. claimed for his own and now he wants them to hang in his bedroom at home as well. I cannot say yes to his request at this time. “That girl is a hot mess!” he said when he first saw the pictures. “That’s two different girls, not one,” I informed him. “Wow, that’s two hot mess girls. Are they friends?” “I don’t think so.” “I like them. I think they’re funny. I want those pictures in my room.”   Within 30 minutes of our arrival, we pleasantly realized that Palm Springs still does something to C.J. He feels free there. Like he can breathe uninhibited there. And, run around the grass in his grandmother’s nightgown there.  He was so in his element and inspired, that he insisted on a photo shoot.      After a long day of modeling, he put on his favorite shirt, a purple tee with cap sleeves that says “I woke up like this,” and paired it with his tight white shorts. He played in the misters in front of the restaurant, twirling, dancing and entertaining those who dined alfresco. When the misters started to turn his shorts translucent, I said it was time to go.  We walked the strip and C.J. commented on many sights. For a brief moment, he wanted to be this for Halloween because it reminded him of Katy Perry. I love Katy Perry, but I would not love this outfit on my seven-year-old. So, I’m glad he changed his mind.  He also wanted this mask, but was very disappointed by whoever merchandised the window because he did not approve of the mask paired with a plaid, flannel shirt. He talked about that for a while.  The next day, before we left, C.J. worked on some of his fashion designs.  And enjoyed pool time with his Dad while Chase and I watched a movie.   When we were packing up to leave the PS Glam House, C.J. saw a postcard with pictures of other properties owned by my reader. He studied those pictures like he was picking Christmas presents out of the Target catalog. “I want to have my next birthday party at that house,” he said referring to the PS Mid-Century House. “And, then I want to keep it as my present.” I think C.J. is bound to make a home in Palm Springs…whether that home’s owners like it or not.        