Friday Fodder: Winners and More Giveaways!
Sat, 31 May 2014 03:20:22 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2014/05/30/friday-fodder-winners-and-more-giveaways/
All Posts Audible Audiobook Besties Friday Fodder Gender Giveaway LGBTQ Living A Bold Life Nerdy Apple parenting Queen Latifah transgender 
 On Tuesday, I gave you all the chance to win a copy of the Raising My Rainbow audiobook (released on May 27 by Audible). To enter, all you had to do was tell me something you’ve learned from my book/blog. I had a hard time picking just one winner, so I picked two. Here they are… Sam: This blog helped me become more proud of my choice to try and become a therapist with specialization in the field of gender studies. People may look at me funny when I explain that I want to work with gender creative people and people who are trying to figure out who they are, but that doesn’t matter. All that matters is that someone is out there willing to listen and offer a kind word when so many in our society are fine ignoring or chastising their fellow humans. Laura: Only one thing I learned from your book/blog?! Finding your blog was like coming home. I struggled for so long to make sure I was being the best parent I could be to my gender creative son and your blog and book validated so many things for me. His Pre-K teachers are reading it and my parents have my copy. My Dad told me the other day that if I wasn’t planning on meeting with my son’s Kindergarten teacher to talk to her before school started that he would! You give me confidence and helped me give my son his voice. If you didn’t win here, never fear! My two besties are hosting giveaways on their blogs. Check them out here and enter:  Raising My Rainbow Audiobook Giveaway!, Living A Bold Life So many important things… and a giveaway!, NerdyApple.com  My other bestie (not really), Queen Latifah is hosting a giveaway of the audiobook book as well. Read the story about Raising My Rainbow on her site, at the bottom you’ll read how to enter:  WHAT I LEARNED FROM RAISING MY RAINBOW, QueenLatifah.com  In the news this week: Last summer I had the pleasure of meeting an awesome family that has been blessed with a trans son. Watch this video about them. It’s really moving. AGENDER: PORTRAITS OF YOUNG PEOPLE WHO IDENTIFY AS NEITHER MALE OR FEMALE, FeatureShoot.com The Transgender Tipping Point, TIME     