David Burtka + Lori Duron = Raising My Rainbow Audiobook
Fri, 23 May 2014 04:08:01 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2014/05/22/david-burtka-lori-duron-raising-my-rainbow-audiobook/
All Posts Audible Audible.com Audiobook Burtka Harris David Burtka Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Neil Patrick Harris parenting Raising My Rainbow 
 Guess what happens on Tuesday?  The audiobook version of Raising My Rainbow will be released by Audible! Guess who the narrator is?  Me! I’m grateful that Audible allowed me to narrate the book. It would have been weird to hear someone else owning the words I wrote about my family.  (I just had to get over hating the sound of my own voice.) Here’s an excerpt from the book before it is released:  Guess who narrated the audiobook’s foreword?  The one and only David Burtka!  I’m forever thankful for the support I’ve received from the Burtka Harris family.  (I like David’s voice much more than my own.) Listen to David read the book’s foreword here:     And, audible has named Raising My Rainbow an “Editors Select” book for May 2014.  Here, my editor explains why it was selected: Editors Select, May 2014 – I have been a fan of Lori Duron and her blog, Raising My Rainbow, for a few years now. When I learned that Audible Studios was producing her book based on her blog, I jumped at the chance to review it. Duron’s book (and blog) shares her and her husband’s funny, heartwarming, and at times heartbreaking experiences in raising a gender nonconforming son. C.J., their youngest son, is a boy who prefers stereotypical girl things – girl toys, girl activities, girl clothes. I’m not a parent, but the open and honest way that Duron writes about her family, and in particular C.J., is utterly engaging, and provides excellent advice and life lessons for any human being. Narrated by Duron herself, Raising My Rainbow is full of content that never appeared on her blog – more hilarious C.J. stories, more of her and her husband’s struggles with their parenting decisions, and even a disturbing account of bullying experienced by their older son. This brave memoir teaches that it’s important to fully love the people in your life…no matter what. —Katie, Audible Editor You can pre-order the audiobook now by clicking here .  (You don’t need to have an Audible.com subscription to purchase the book.)     