Tuesday Fodder: Tom Goss, Illuminate the Dark Edition
Tue, 13 May 2014 22:33:23 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2014/05/13/tuesday-fodder-tom-goss-illuminate-the-dark-edition/
All Posts BlogHer Camp Aranu'tiq Gender gender nonconforming Illuminate The Dark LGBTQ Orange County parenting PFLAG Tom Goss Voices of the Year VOTY 
 Things that recently caught and held my attention… You have got to watch the latest music video from indie musician and human rights activist Tom Goss.  Illuminate the Dark shows that beauty takes many forms and that each individual possesses the ability to be vibrant. With the video, Goss hopes to “help people see one another through the eyes of those that love them.  People judge others all of the time, but if we take the time to see people as their mother, lover or sister sees them, we will begin to see what makes each individual dynamic and beautiful.” Look for an appearance by yours truly, a fabulous redhead and an awesome big brother.   * * * This Sunday, I’ll be at the Unitarian Universalist Church of Studio City as part of a panel discussing gender. What does it mean to be transgender? Gender nonconforming? Gender creative? Genderqueer? What is the gender spectrum and how does it affect the way we live, the language we use, the laws we need, and even our social media interactions?” Join us to learn from a panel of experts, who became experts through their own personal experiences, including:  Lori Duron, author/blogger, RAISING MY RAINBOW Marsha Aizumi, author, TWO SPIRITS, ONE HEART Aiden Aizumi, educator/advocate  Bring your questions, your openness, and your willingness to learn! We will work to create a safe environment where there are no dumb questions! Click here to learn more about the event, which starts at noon, is free and open to all. * * * I’ve been named one of BlogHer’s 2014 Voices of the Year! BlogHer, a 100 million-strong blogging community, received thousands of submissions and selected my blog post “When The Boys’ Room Isn’t Safe For A Boy “ as a winner in the “Heart” category. As a result, WordPress Freshly Pressed the same blog post. Thanks BlogHer and WordPress! Click here to read more and learn who my fellow 2014 Voices Of The Year are.  * * * The amazing people behind Camp Aranu’tiq (a camp for transgender and gender variant youth ages eight and older and their families) have announced a new fun-filled weekend camp for LGBTQ parents/guardians and their children of any age. Extended family members are welcome, too! Click on a camp name to learn more about Camp Aranu’tiq and/or the LGBTQ Family Camp. * * * Headlines… Title IX protects transgender students, federal agency says  Parents of young boy in England pulling their child out of an after school club because the club won’t let him wear dresses The Lord Looks At The Heart: When My Son Became My Daughter * * * I hope all of you mothers and adults who mother a child had a very happy Mother’s Day.  C.J. made me a card at school that says he loves me most when I’m cleaning the house. So, there’s that.   