What’s In My Son’s Purse?
Tue, 15 Apr 2014 22:44:06 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2014/04/15/whats-in-my-sons-purse/
All Posts C.J.'s Purse Chuck E. Cheese's Disney Disney Princess Disney's Frozen effeminate Fairly Odd Parents Frozen gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Gwen Stefani Harajuku LGBTQ My Little Pony parenting Pharrell Raising My Rainbow Sephora The Cat In The Hat 
 C.J. is very nosy and always wants to know what’s inside other people’s purses. Because it is not okay for him to peek inside the satchels of strangers, I’ve started easing his curiosity by showing him the pages inside popular magazines that list the contents of celebrities’ bags. He loves those lists so much that he wanted me to create one for him and share it with you. Without further ado, here is what’s inside my son’s purse.  Purse: I made my purse. Well, I didn’t “make it” make it. I colored in the design. I like this purse cause it holds a lot of stuff and I have a lot of stuff to hold. I can also wear it across my body so my hands are free to hold more stuff. Plastic Show Pony: I got this pony at Disney Princesses On Ice. It’s beautiful and pretty and special. I named it Uni for unicorn. Because it’s like a unicorn, without a horn, so it’s not a unicorn, but I pretend that it is. The Cat In The Hat Book: I keep it in my purse because I really wanted it and last time I found one it was in Spanish and I finally found it in English. And, I really love The Cat In The Hat.  I can’t read Spanish. Green Finger Pointer: I like green, it’s one of my favorite colors besides red, purple, pink and rainbow. I use it to point when I pretend that I’m playing school and I’m the teacher. It makes pointing easier. Sometimes I pretend to pick my nose with it and it’s green like boogers.  So, that’s perfect. Tiny Plush Giraffe: Doesn’t he look like a baby toy? Well, he’s way more than that; he’s also a finger puppet! Can you believe that?!  So, I like it because his tail is fringy and I like his hair. I named him Bobby. Fancy Lady Head Brooch: She’s diamond-y. Her favorite thing in the whole wide world is diamonds and if she got $1,008 dollars she would spend it all on diamonds and nothing else. Gingerbread Boy: I made him gender conforming. I like his hair. I gave him green highlights. I like how I made his pants roll up at the bottom. I gave him a HUGE smiley face because he’s always happy like the song “Happy” by Pharrell. I think Pharrell’s hat is crazy-cool. Pink Bag Of Coins: I want to keep them and save them up and buy something from miWorld. I also told Nana that I wanted something from miWorld so possibly she’ll get it for me and I can save my money. (Don’t tell anybody that this is fake money.) Anna from Disney’s Frozen: I like her because she talks when you push on her boobs and stomach. Frozen is my favorite movie right now. I like it because two girls save the day and they don’t need a boy. And, I like the dresses that Elsa and Anna wear. $5: I got a dollar. It’s actually five dollars. I earned this money doing chores for my Pa. I keep it in my purse in case I need more dollars and it’s special because it’s the only five-dollar bill I have. It’s my biggest money I ever got. If I did spend it, I would spend it on a time machine so If I didn’t want to go to school I could just skip ahead and skip it. Fancy Skeleton Head: It’s a girl, but she has a beard. My daddy gave it to me when he got back from Mexico. It reminds me of Spanish.  My mom’s skeleton head will look this fancy when she dies and her skin falls off. Harajuku Girl Figurine: Because I like Gwen Stefani and everything Harajuku. They are pretty and super sassy. Brown Chair: I keep it because it reminds me of a chair at our house. Fairly Odd Parents Doll: I got it at Chuck E. Cheese’s when I played one game and got 1,000 tickets. Last time I got 100 tickets on the exact same game. You should play that game when you go to Chuck E. Cheese’s. I like his hair. I think it’s cool that he has green hair and I like that he’s a fairy. iTouch: My mommy gave it to me. It’s my first own electronic thing. My favorite apps are Fruit Ninja, Kick the Dummy, McKenna the American Girl doing gymnastics and any app where you make dresses and do makeovers. Lip Gloss: Which I can put on right now (applies gloss). I keep it in my purse so that I can put it on when I need to. Like when I go to school. Sometimes I can wear my mom’s lipstick, but only if I ask. I got this lip gloss at Sephora. I love Sephora. You should go there. They have every makeup ever made. Fake Rat: I use it to scare people. If they try to rob my purse they would see the rat and scream and stop robbing me. Miniature Gumball Machine: It reminds me of love because the gumballs are heart-shaped and I love it and I love love. Rainbow Dash From My Little Pony: It reminds me of my mom’s book called Raising My Rainbow.   