Friday Fodder: Grayson Can Take His Backpack To School Edition
Sat, 22 Mar 2014 02:00:37 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2014/03/21/friday-fodder-grayson-can-take-his-backpack-to-school-edition/
All Posts bullying Gay pride Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes GLSEN Grayson Bruce LGBTQ My Little Pony Out Proud Families parenting 
 If you’ve been following the story about North Carolina’s Grayson Bruce, yesterday his school/district issued a reply: Statement from Buncombe County Schools after the meeting: We have appreciated the opportunity to meet with the Bruce family and discuss the issues. We sincerely regret that the issue of being told to leave the bookbag at home was perceived as blaming Grayson. While that was not the intent, the perception became reality. We support Grayson bringing the bookbag to school. We discussed a number of options to consider in moving forward for Grayson. All of the options discussed included a safety transition plan and an allowance for Grayson to bring the bookbag to school. Every situation with young children is a teachable moment and we will use this example in our efforts to address a wider issue of bullying. The Bruce family has committed to working with us to improve and enhance our anti-bullying programs. We ask for everyone’s patience and understanding as we continue to work collaboratively with the family toward a resolution that is best for Grayson and his classmates at Candler Elementary School. * * * A few months ago, I was introduced to the videos of Laurin Mayeno.  Laurin is the mother of a 25-year-old out, proud gay man who was gender creative as a child.  She has created three Proud Mom Videos in which she shares her experiences parenting her son, Danny.  She created the series with her son’s help to open hearts and minds, spark dialogue, build awareness and support families like her own. You should watch them and then poke around her Out Proud Families website:  http://www.outproudfamilies.com/?page_id=25 * * * GLSEN, The Matthew Shepard Foundation, Candlewick Press and author Leslea Newman have put together an expanded resource guide for Newman’s book, OCTOBER MOURNING: A SONG FOR MATTHEW SHEPARD.  The resource guide tells the story of Matthew Shepard, teaches themes of empathy and justice, implements LGBT-inclusive lesson plans, meets reading and writing standards and supports LGBT students. Check it out here: http://glsen.org/matthewshepard * * * I’ve been contacted by a director who is casting for a workshop of a play in which all actors are trans.  They are looking for someone who can play a 17 year old trans girl. Here’s more info: “MERISM” Your Name Here: A Queer Theater Company Workshop Production Producer:  {Your Name Here}: A Queer Theater Company   http://www.yournamehereqtc.org/ SUMMARY: Nina’s a 4.0 high school senior from a privileged family but when her mom won’t get out of bed she goes looking for parenting and support at a queer and trans youth drop-in center.   She quickly bonds with Bo, the only other transperson she sees and, as they become friends, urges him to come stay with her and her mom.  MERISM tells the story of three transpeople whose lives become inextricably connected. Actors can be any ethnicity, but must identify as trans or gender-queer.  It doesn’t matter where they are in their transition, as long as they identify as female.  The workshop takes place in New York City, so they need someone who lives in the tri-state area.  Actors will be paid. If you are interested, please contact Judy at judy@judybowmancasting.com or (917) 673-2655.   