Friday Fodder: Rainbows At Play Edition
Fri, 07 Mar 2014 16:00:39 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2014/03/07/friday-fodder-rainbows-at-play-edition/
All Posts Bestie Gay Gay pride Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Nerdy Apple Orange County Rainbows At Play Stonewall 
 One week ago, we launched Rainbows At Play – an online community where families raising gender creative kids and/or allies can connect to playdate and find fierceness in numbers.  The response has been overwhelming, exhausting and exhilarating. In the first seven days, the community welcomed more than 150 families from across the US.  We have connected families and playdates are being set up in 22 states!  California Connecticut Georgia Idaho Indiana Kansas Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Missouri Nevada New York North Carolina Oklahoma Pennsylvania South Carolina Tennessee Texas Vermont Virginia Washington Wisconsin  We’ve had about a dozen families join from Canada and have playdates in the works in Ontario and Quebec. And, most surprising…we’ve gone international!  Families are arranging playdates in:  Australia Ecuador France Scotland Spain  The response has been so great, that we’ve brought on two moderators to help us manage the community.  Three cheers and a toast to our bestie Sarah Manley from NerdyApple.com and THE Cory Byrom. Community members who have yet to find other families in their area are gabbing it up in the “Community Chat” area.  There, we currently have seven different conversations going about everything from school, parenting and where to get fabulous clothes for young gender benders. We remain giddy and emotional about Rainbows At Play and the good things that are happening in the community.  Help us spread the word and the sparkle.  The more gender creative and ally families that join, the better. Let’s Get Playing! Lori and Kelly * * * Also this week, I attended the Stonewall National Education Project’s 2nd Annual Conference, where I had the chance to meet with educators, administrators and other youth-serving professionals to talk about what it’s like to raise differently gendered child.   I’m already looking forward to next year’s conference! * * * If you live in Orange County, join Youth Empowered to Act (YETA) and Garden Grove High School’s Gay Straight Alliance (GSA) at their upcoming LGBTQ Student Rights Community Forum, where attendees will learn about the protections and rights of LGBTQ and allied students. Parents, students and community members are encouraged to attend this free event and no RSVP is required. Thursday, March 13//6 – 8p.m.//Garden Grove High School * * *   