Introducing Rainbows At Play!
Thu, 27 Feb 2014 16:00:58 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2014/02/27/introducing-rainbows-at-play/
All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Kelly Living A Bold Life Orange County parenting playdates Rainbows At Play raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow twirl 
 It all started years ago when we went looking for other families like our own — families raising gender bending boys who like wearing skirts and playing with dolls.  We came up with nothing…until we found each other.  Every day we are grateful for the relationships that have developed between our families.  We’ve always been aware that we have it good and, now, we are giddy as hell to help other families connect. This blog post marks the official launch of Rainbows At Play.  Rainbows At Play is an online community that connects families raising gender nonconforming kids so they can playdate and find fierceness in numbers.  Here’s how to join:  You must be a primary caregiver of a differently gendered child.  (If you are not raising a child, please don’t join the community.  Help us keep Rainbows At Play kiddos and families safe by only joining if you are an adult primary caregiver.  We will post updates to our blogs about Rainbows At Play that will allow others to join in on the joy and happiness of the community.  You can also follow us on Twitter and Facebook for updates and fun peeks into the Rainbows At Play community.  We hate to be exclusive, unwelcoming and uninviting.  We hope you understand why we have to be when it comes to this very special project.) If you don’t already have a Lefora.com membership, go there and create an account so that you can access communities, groups and forums hosted by Lefora. Go to Rainbows.Lefora.com and fill out the application. Be patient.  Initially, Kelly and I will be reviewing all applications ourselves.  We hope to have so many families apply that it takes us a few days to get to new applications.  Wouldn’t that be wonderful?  The more who join, the better your odds of finding a local playdate mate and family just like yours. Once you are accepted into the community, read the “Rules and Guidelines” and “Getting Started” topics found at the top of the Community’s homepage. Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter. Spread the word and the sparkle.  This parenting journey can be lonely, but it doesn’t have to be.  Let’s get playing! Lori and Kelly Raising My Rainbow and Living A Bold Life   