Friday Fodder: I See A Need Edition
Sat, 25 Jan 2014 03:00:31 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2014/01/24/friday-fodder-i-see-a-need-edition/
All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Orange County parenting playdate playgroup raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow 
 Okay, I’m thinking out loud here.  I see a need.  I’ve seen it for more than a year now.  I’m often contacted by adults raising a gender creative child who are looking for other gender creative families to playdate with.  I’ve managed to connect a few and that has felt awesome.  We love our gender nonconforming playgroup and it’s so important that C.J. be able to play with other boys who like to do nails and put on fashion shows.  I’m sad when I think about gender creative kids who have never met or played with another gender creative kid.  That sucks.  And, parents and siblings benefit from our playgroup too.  It’s a win-win dressed in pink and dipped in rhinestones. In the past, when a family has contacted me asking if I know of anybody in their area to meet up with, I put a call out on my blog and social media.  (Are you following me on Facebook and Twitter?  You should be.  You’re missing important posts like this and thoughts from C.J.).  Sometimes my calls are answered by families close to the original family.  I get permission from both families to share their email address and first name and, then, I make a e-introduction and tell them to have fun, respect each other’s anonymity and let me know how things go. I’ve done this for families in:  California Canada Georgia Hong Kong Illinois Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Ohio Oregon Philadelphia New Jersey New York Washington  I’m getting more of these requests and I want to help.  But, how do I do it?  The same way I have been?  Set up a separate page on this site?  How much work and liability do I assume?  How do I manage something that could take on a life of its own?  Do you know of anybody already providing this service who I can point interested parties to? I see a void and want to fill it, but how?  Your suggestions are greatly appreciated.   