Friday Fodder: Gifting and Giving Edition
Fri, 13 Dec 2013 16:27:49 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/12/13/friday-fodder-gifting-and-giving-edition/
All Posts books Camp Aranu'tiq Christmas Gender GLAAD Jennifer Finney Boylan LGBTQ Mamalode 
 Are you done with your holiday shopping yet?  I handmade elaborate gifts based on inspirations from Pinterest for everyone on our list.  I lavishly wrapped them and have had them nestled under the tree since December 1. I’m kidding.  The only reason why I’m even halfway done with my shopping is because I can do it in my jammies from the comfort of my couch and laptop.  How did people do it before online shopping? Here are some of my suggestions for gifts and giving, in case you have half your recipients to shop for, too. Donate to GLAAD: My friend Jennifer Finney Boylan serves as GLAAD’s national co-chair (she’s the first transgender person to do so, FYI).  GLAAD is a nonprofit organization that fights for LGBT equality through media advocacy. Like Jennifer and me, GLAAD believes that the most powerful way to improve the lives of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender adults and children is through the power of stories.  And, it’s by amplifying the stories of families like mine on film, in print and online, that GLAAD helps to change the world. Through the rest of 2013, the Gill Foundation is matching all donations made to GLAAD.   You can donate in honor of or tribute to someone and that could be a great holiday gift.  GLAAD and my family are welcoming donations in tribute of “Lori Duron and Family.”  To get giving click here:  www.glaad.org/donate.  On that page you’ll be asked to fill out the usual info; there’s also a button marked “Make a Tribute Gift” and if you click there, you’ll see the place to write down the name of the person you are making the donation in tribute of.  You can even set it up for them to receive an email letting them know that you have made a donation in their name. * * * Buy My Book: Look at the fabulous books that my friends, readers and supporters have created for you to give as gifts to the people you love! pleasure. Raising My Rainbow by ME! She’s Not There by Jennifer Finney Boyle Stuck In The Middle With You by Jennifer Finney Boyle Born Gay, Born This Way The Persecution of Mildred Dunlap by Paulette Mahurin Gender Born, Gender Made by Diane Ehrensaft My Princess Boy by Cheryl Kilodavis The Boy Who Cried Fabulous by Leslea Newman Roland Humphrey Is Wearing A What? by Eileen Kiernan-Johnson * * * Camp Aranu’tiq sent me an email this week.  Over the summer, they served a record number of campers and in 2014 they expect to serve more than 300 campers and families through their summer camps, brand new leadership camps for ages 16-18 and a new weekend family camp! You could consider a holiday gift to help their campers have the best possible experience. $600 covers tuition cost for one camper $350 covers camp’s costs for having one camp volunteer $100 is a big help toward food and supplies camp programs You can donate here: camparanutiq.org/donate. * * * In non-holiday related news:  If you live in the UK, there is a network and production company putting together a film about parenting a gender nonconforming son. They are looking for gender nonconforming boys and families who are interested in learning more about the film and possibly participating in it. They assure me that their approach is supportive, not judgmental.  They are a well-established, award-winning science and factual independent TV production company with worldwide experience supplying to the main channels in the UK. If you are interested in learning more, email me at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com. * * * And, finally, if you’ve made it this far in this loooooong post, read this amazing essay that was inspired by one of my recent blog posts. A Thousand Heartbreaks by Jennifer Savage on Mamalode     