A Belated Happy Thanksgiving
Tue, 03 Dec 2013 00:19:56 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/12/02/a-belated-happy-thanksgiving/
All Posts CSUF Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBT LGBTQ Orange County PFLAG Thanksgiving 
 I’ve missed you. I hope that you had a rad Thanksgiving and Black Friday. To be honest, our school bathroom issue has been weighing heavy on my heart and mind.  C.J. and Chase both had the week off from school.  I was super thankful for that.  We needed a break. I hope you know that I’m also thankful for you.  I love this little online community that we have here.  More very soon, Lori * * * “For some people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender holidays mean celebration, joy, family and togetherness. But for others it can mean a time of stress, difficulty and even sadness or depression…especially if one feels that they aren’t able to come out or are not out to everyone in the family. Sitting through a family meal can be challenging enough, but what happens if you are not yet in a position to be true to your authentic self as you make your way through the meal?” Here are some suggestions from PFLAG — both for people who are LGBT and  allies – for getting through the end-of-year family celebrations unscathed! Click here to learn more about navigating family at holiday time… * * * This Friday I’ll be speaking at California State University, Fullerton’s LGBT Symposium at 11:30 a.m.. “The purpose of the Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity symposium is to bring together a series of expert panelists and speakers to address issues of inequities within the LGBT community and share their expertise with the local and extended community. We invite all student affairs professionals, educators, graduate students, faculty, administrators, and community members to attend this educational symposium. The symposium titled “Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity: On Your Campus and in Your Classroom,” will be held on December 6, 2013 to address the educational concerns of the LGBTQ community.” Click here to learn more about the event.       