Friday Fodder: Good Day L.A. Edition
Sat, 26 Oct 2013 03:41:39 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/10/25/friday-fodder-good-day-l-a-edition/
All Posts Drag Queens Fox Good Day LA Kelly Leland Bobbe Mamalode Palm Springs Pride Salon LGBTQ twirl 
 I’m tired. On Wednesday morning, I appeared on Fox’s Good Day L.A., the top local morning show in Southern California.  Here’s my interview.  Please take a moment to admire my shoes, which were C.J.-picked-and-approved.  * * * My Good Day L.A. appearance came on the heels of a five-day-long trip to Atlanta to present at the Salon LGBTQ Conference — the first national LGBTQ social media conference. I had a special travel buddy with me on this trip.  I took C.J. and he got some quality playtime with his BFF Twirl, who is the son of  fellow Salon LGBTQ panelist Kelly who blogs at  It’s a Bold Life. * * * Next up on my appearance schedule is Palm Springs Pride.  Who’s going?  I’ll be in the Author’s Village on Sunday, November 3, at 1 p.m., to talk about my family’s experiences and sign books. It’s my first Palm Springs Pride and only my second pride ever….so stop by and make me feel welcome.  My brother has informed me that many people may not be sober at 1 p.m. on Sunday.  That’s okay, you can stop by and say “hi” even if you are under the influence.  Just promise not to puke or otherwise soil me in any way. * * * A reader sent me the link to an article about “New York-based photographer Leland Bobbé, (who) has put together a fascinating series of portraits that examine the idea of gender fluidity by showing New York City drag queens in half-drag.” C.J. has asked to look the photos every night before bed.  He is completely enthralled.  He looks at each picture as a whole, then takes a piece of paper and covers up the queen side to see the man side first.  Then, he slides the paper to cover the man side and stare at the queen side.  Then, he looks at the photo as a whole again.  He notices all of the detail….and he wants colored contact lenses for Christmas. “With these images my intention is to capture both the male and the alter ego female side of these subjects in one image in order to explore the cross over between males and females and to break down the physical barriers that separate them. This in turn questions the normative ideas about gender and gender fluidity. Through the power of hair and makeup these men are able to completely transform themselves and find their female side while showing their male side simultaneously. These are composed in camera and are not two separate images digitally composed.” — Leland Bobbé * * * This week Mamalode published a BEAUTIFUL piece written by a mother of a gender nonconforming girl.  Read it.  I mean it. “My feral girl steps across gender lines and has become to me her own species. Out on our farm in summer, she runs shirtless in little boy boxer briefs, climbs to the top of our rusty swing set and, to me, she is just Eliza. But when I see her in a room full of other six-year-old girls, I realize, again, she’s different. This is no news flash to her. Eliza cultivates this difference without meaning to…” Read the full piece here:  http://mamalode.com/story/detail/half-half * * *   