Friday Fodder: Birthday Blogger Edition
Sat, 05 Oct 2013 05:39:29 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/10/04/friday-fodder-birthday-blogger-edition/
All Posts Birthday Corvallis Corvallis-Benton County Public Library gender creative gender nonconforming Ireland Orange County parenting UK 
 As a birthday present to myself, I took the earlier part of the week off from blogging.  I spent the time fixated on the fact that I’m now closer to 40 than I am to 30.  The first email that I saw the morning of my birthday was a Groupon for Botox.  Well played, Groupon.  Well played. I’m also a little wiped out from my book’s release four weeks ago.  I also get lazy periodically and may need some sort of rehab to get over my addiction to Candy Crush.  So, please excuse my absence. Matt, Chase and C.J. made my birthday special as always.  Matt always buys me a present and takes the boys to Target so that each of them can gift me with something that I’ve always wanted.  Then, the boys made cards for me. This if the front of my card from C.J.:  This is the inside, that’s me opening up my presents.  I have really long legs like a supermodel, according to C.J.:  This is C.J. and Chase falling down the stairs to watch me open my presents because I started opening them without them.  I think he just wanted to draw his hair in motion:  This is the gift that C.J. picked out especially for me.  It may look like only a cute little cupcake tchotchke, but wait there’s more:  Inside is this necklace that I am wearing now with pride:  “Mom, how about you have the necklace and I have the cupcake?  That sounds like a good idea, doesn’t it?” C.J. said persuasively. “Okay,” I agreed. “And, then, when you die I can have the necklace,” he said.  That didn’t help me with my feeling old problem. * * * This Tuesday, October 8, I’ll be at the Corvallis-Benton County Public Library. At 7 p.m., I will be in the Main Meeting Room.  The event is free and open to the public.   Parents of gender nonconforming children are invited to a special visit with me at the library from 6 to 6:30 pm. This session is free but sign up is required; parents can email Robin Fosdick at robin.fosdick@corvallisoregon.gov to register. An extra special thank you to the Friends of the Corvallis-Benton County Public Library and the Hilton Garden Inn for sponsoring this event. * * * Raising My Rainbow: Adventures in Raising a Fabulous, Gender Creative Son is now available in the UK and Ireland in paperback and for your e-reader.  Spread the word.  #raisingmyrainbowworlddomination   