Friday Fodder: West Hollywood Book Fair Edition
Sat, 28 Sep 2013 04:51:22 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/09/27/friday-fodder-west-hollywood-book-fair-edition/
All Posts Appearances Corvallis-Benton County Public Library Events gender creative gender nonconforming parenting People Magazine West Hollywood Book Fair 
 This Sunday I’ll be at the West Hollywood Book Fair.  Will I see you there?  Sunday, September 29, West Hollywood Book Fair  The book fair runs from 10 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.  At 3:30 p.m., I will be on a panel titled “Telling My Story: LGBT Memoir” and I will be signing books immediately afterwards.   Admission is free, so stop by and say hi!  Here’s more event info:  The 2013 West Hollywood Book Fair is one of Southern California’s largest and most eclectic literary events.  Taking place at West Hollywood Park & West Hollywood Library, it will feature 13 stages, hundreds of acclaimed authors and artists, exhibitors, live performances, culinary demonstrations, children’s theater programming, and workshops for all ages.  The day will end with a very special in-the-park screening of Singin’ in the Rain with Debbie Reynolds. * * *  In their issue that hit newsstands today, People Magazine named Raising My Rainbow a “Good Read!”  It’s fun (and surreal) to see my book in a magazine like People, but more than anything it’s exciting that it introduces the topic of gender creative kids to such a large, mainstream audience.     * * *  Next up for me after this weekend’s West Hollywood Book Fair is…  Tuesday, October 8, Corvallis-Benton County Public Library At 7 p.m., I will be speaking at the Corvallis-Benton County Public Library in the Main Meeting Room.  The event is free and open to the public.   Parents of gender nonconforming children are invited to a special visit with me at the library from 6 to 6:30 pm. This session is free but sign up is required; parents can email Robin Fosdick at robin.fosdick@corvallisoregon.gov to register. An extra special thank you to the Friends of the Corvallis-Benton County Public Library and the Hilton Garden Inn for sponsoring this event.   