See Us Online and In Person
Sun, 22 Sep 2013 04:25:10 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/09/21/see-us-online-and-in-person/
All Posts Dr. Sears Dr. Stork gender creative gender nonconforming raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow The Doctors 
 On Thursday, the television show The Doctors aired an amazing segment on our family, blog and book.  It was more in-depth and informative than any interview we’ve done before and they handled the topic with such empathy, support and compassion.   Following is our 30-minute segment broken up into five clips. Our Segment’s Synopsis: Parenting a Gender-Creative Child  Supporting Gender Nonconformity: Parents Lori and Matt Duron open up about their decision to support their gender-creative child.  Gender Nonconformity Vs. Transgender: Gender therapist and licensed clinical social worker Darlene Tando explains the difference between transgender and gender-nonconforming individuals.  Struggles of Raising a Gender-Creative Child: Parents Matt and Lori Duron reveal the most painful parenting struggles of raising their gender-creative child.  Parents Discuss Bullying of Gender-Creative Child: Parents Matt and Lori Duron discuss some of the hate mail they have received for supporting their gender-nonconforming child. * * * So, that is how you can see us online.   Here’s how you can see me in person (sorry, C.J.’s Dad and the boys have to stay home). Sunday, September 29, West Hollywood Book Fair  At 3:30 p.m., I will be on a panel titled “Telling My Story: LGBT Memoir” and I will  be signing books afterwards.   The 12th Annual West Hollywood Book Fair will feature literature, art, music, performance and community in an eclectic presentation.  Admission is free, so stop by and say hi! Tuesday, October 8, Corvallis-Benton County Public Library At 7 p.m., I will be speaking at the Corvallis-Benton County Public Library in the Main Meeting Room.  The event is free and open to the public.   Parents of gender nonconforming children are invited to a special visit with me at the library from 6 to 6:30 pm. This session is free but sign up is required; parents can email Robin Fosdick at robin.fosdick@corvallisoregon.gov to register. An extra special thank you to the Friends of the Corvallis-Benton County Public Library and the Hilton Garden Inn for sponsoring this event.   