I’m Officially A Published Author!
Wed, 04 Sep 2013 20:32:40 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/09/04/im-officially-a-published-author/
All Posts AP CNN Diane Rehm Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Jezebel LGBTQ parenting The Today Show Time Today Yahoo! 
 Thank you for your support and for reading my book and sharing it with others.   No.  Seriously.  I mean it.  Thank you. C.J.’s Dad and I were on The TODAY Show yesterday.  It was definitely a once in a lifetime experience.  (C.J. and his Brother were most impressed that we were in the same vicinity as Ariana Grande, who performed on the show that day.) Here’s a link to an article on the TODAY website and our clip from the show. Now, I know I’ve been slacking off on writing new posts during the last few weeks.  If you are hungry for my words, check out one (or all!) of these pieces. Boys Who Wear Pink Aren’t Just Internet Sensations I wrote this piece for Time about how stories about boys playing with gender come out of nowhere and cause massive public reactions. And then, as quickly as they arrived, they disappear. It’s disappointing that no one event nor all of them as a whole has had the power to inspire and sustain a lasting conversation that raises awareness, understanding and acceptance of little boys who don’t conform to traditional gender norms. ‘Are the kids going to tease me today?’: Sending my rainbow child back to school In this piece for CNN, I write about how there is a bit of dread that grows inside me with the start of every school year. I’m one of those moms who fight back tears the first few weeks of school — not because the separation from my children for six hours a day five days a week is too much to handle, but because I fear for the safety and acceptance of my youngest son, C.J., who is gender nonconforming. Understanding Gender Nonconforming Children  I’m traveling from New York to Washington to be on The Diane Rehm Show (NPR).  It will be a live one-hour talk about gender nonconforming children.  Thursday, Sept. 5  at 11:06 a.m. EDT.  I’ll be in great company.  Fellow guests include:  Andrew Solomon writer and lecturer on psychology, politics and the arts; author of “Far From the Tree: Parents, Children and the Search for Identity.” Dr. Edgardo Menvielle psychiatrist and director of gender nonconforming youth program at Children’s National Medical Center in Washington, D.C.  Also in the News This Family Is The Face Of Awesome Parenting, Jezebel Mom Of ‘Rainbow’ Son Comes Out In New Book, Yahoo/AP Order the Raising My Rainbow book!         