What Jennifer Finney Boylan Said About Me
Sat, 10 Aug 2013 15:19:45 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/08/10/what-jennifer-finney-boylan-said-about-me/
All Posts Gender Jennifer Finney Boylan LGBTQ parenting Publisher's Weekly She's Not There Stuck In The Middle With You The Advocate transgender 
 Lori Duron, a writer of extraordinary generosity, has given us a guide to parenthood both gentle and revolutionary.   Raising My Rainbow is a valuable resource not only for parents of gender-nonconforming children, but for readers everywhere who seek the courage to stand up for the ones they love.  Fierce, wise, and illuminating. –Jennifer Finney Boylan, author of SHE’S NOT THERE and STUCK IN THE MIDDLE WITH YOU.   When I first read those words by Jennifer Finney Boylan about me (ME!) I needed  to take a moment to gather myself.  I’ve admired her for more than a decade. I remember being on bedrest during my first pregnancy and watching Oprah interview Boylan as her book She’s Not There was being released.  I rushed to get the book and read it in a matter of days.  I’ve always preferred non-fiction to fiction and her story was one that I hadn’t read before. What strikes me now, is that, even as I read it with a child growing in my belly, I didn’t consider the possibility that my child(ren) could be transgender.  When my second son, C.J., started playing with girl things and wearing girl clothes I thought about Boylan and I found that old copy of She’s Not There on my bookshelf.  I remembered how, long before C.J. came along, she taught me lessons on the fluidity and flexibility of gender and how sometimes a person’s sex and gender don’t align. A few months ago I devoured her latest book, Stuck in the Middle With You.  Boylan —  like all people who approach life with an open heart and open mind — makes me feel safe because I know that she would appreciate and protect my son and my family.  Those kinds of people aren’t always easy to find.  Boylan and her family understand the complexities of gender and that is comforting to me, it makes me not feel so alone and also gives me hope. In Stuck in the Middle With You, Boylan writes that as a man gender was something that she fought against.  I see that in my son, too.  Boylan’s open approach to gender and her bravery in educating readers makes the world a safer, more understanding world for people like my son. There’s this quote that I love:  “You have to go the way your blood beats. If you don’t live the only life you have, you won’t live some other life, you won’t live any life at all.”  I hope that stories like ours and Boylan’s help people to understand that and believe it. Thank you, Jenny. Read what others have said about my book lately: Publisher’s Weekly The Advocate MetroMoms.net  GoodReads.com   Pre-order the Raising My Rainbow book!         