New Look and New Friends
Tue, 23 Jul 2013 23:36:29 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/07/23/new-look-and-new-friends/
All Posts Circle of Moms Design is Good Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Orange County Raising My Rainbow twirl 
 Okay.  Don’t Panic.  I’ve refreshed the look and feel of my blog to more closely resemble the cover of my book.  Yay!  I’m really excited about it and think that it conveys C.J.’s light and sparkly spirit.  C.J. likes the pink glitter in particular.  He’s a sucker for glitter, but you already knew that. Change is difficult, or at least it is for me.  I hate it when a website changes on me.  Never fear, the functionality of the blog is largely the same and I’m still working to make some updates.   I admit, I’m no web designer or coder, so please bear with me. I’ve also freshened up my Facebook and Twitter pages.  I hope you like it all.  My book’s September 3 release date is getting closer and this is all part of the preparation process. * * * This week, instead of reading a post written by me, you have to read a post written by one of my best friends.  I met her through my blog and she has an amazing gender creative son of her own.  After years of near-constant emails and texts, we met.  And, so did her son Twirl and C.J.  It was one of the best weekend’s that we’ve had in a long, long time.  Read what happened here.  So if you follow along with Lori’s blog Raising my Rainbow you know exactly who C.J. is. If you don’t, go there and follow. About 2 years ago a group of moms on the internet (think SuperFriends) all started writing to each other with a common bond: advocacy for our children. These women have become my best friends. Lori’s son C.J. and my son Twirl lead very similar lives. As Cory and I would talk to Twirl about other boys like him I started showing him pics of C.J. Lori had sent me, as well as the ones on her blog. He instantly wanted to play with him. I had to explain how it wasn’t possible at the moment because they actually live across the country. But, I said, you could send him an email and say hi, so that’s just how the friendship started. C.J. and Twirl would send each other emails through our accounts with the cutest 3 sentence emails you have ever read. They talked about the things they loved to do, dressing up, fashion shows, favorite characters. They invited each other to do things like birthday parties but always ending with, ” but I know you can’t since you don’ t live here”. One day Cory and I were talking about how some day we just had to get them together. And then one day I just texted Lori and said we are doing it, when can we come visit… * * * I have been nominated as one of Southern California’s Top 25 Bloggers by Circle of Moms. Will you please vote for me?  No sign up needed.  Just click here, find my blog and click on the heart/vote button. You can vote every 24 hours until July 30.   