Friday Fodder: NYC Pic, Vote For Me, Music Video Edition
Sat, 13 Jul 2013 05:02:05 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/07/12/friday-fodder-nyc-pic-vote-for-me-music-video-edition/
All Posts 
 Last month, C.J.’s Dad and I went to New York City.  So many of you suggested things to do while we were there, that I thought I’d share a little bit more about our trip. We were in New York to meet the wonderful group of people who are working to make my book a success.  They are people who have come to know our family, care about our message and believe wholeheartedly that it needs to be shared with the world. While meeting all of them and finally putting faces to names and voices, I was reminded of how lucky I am and how thankful I am for my blog’s readers. If I completely oversimplify it, this is how my journey to becoming a published author went. I started a blog.  Some people read it and liked it.  They shared it with others.  One reader posted a link to it in the comment section of a hugely popular news and gossip website.  An agent saw it, clicked it, liked it, emailed me and helped me get a book deal. Condensed like that, it leaves out a massive amount of excitement, anxiety, struggle, contemplation, thought and wine. We went to New York to meet my agent for the first time.  We also met with “my team.”  I have a team.  How weird is that?  Here we all are. Sheila, PublisherDanielle, MarketingJulie, MarketingSarah, PublicityMeKari, AgentAnnsley, Publicity Thank you to all of you who have read my blog and shared it with others.   You have played a huge part in making me an author.  That reader who left my link in a comment box on the Internet changed my life forever. * * * Can I ask for a favor?  For the second year in a row, I have been nominated as one of Southern California’s Top 25 Bloggers by Circle of Moms.  Will you please vote for me?  No sign up needed.  Click here, look for the “Top Blogs” list, find my blog and click on the heart/vote button.  You can vote every 24 hours until July 30. * * * Check out these to music videos featuring gender nonconforming boys.  Both are really well done.  Love them! Kingsley Flood:  Sun Gonna Lemme Shine  Jillette Johnson: Cameron  * * * This weekend is the Gender Spectrum Conference in Berkeley.  I’ll be speaking and blogging/Facebooking/Tweeting live from the event.   