Friday Fodder: We Have A Lot To Cover Edition
Sat, 29 Jun 2013 04:40:18 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/06/28/friday-fodder-we-have-a-lot-to-cover-edition/
All Posts Farfaria Gender Diversity gender nonconforming Orange County People Magazine 
 This week’s People magazine has a great article about a transgender girl named Nikki and her family.  Read the first four paragraphs here. I feel the need to point out that Nikki is adopted, only because I’ve noticed and noted that 75 percent of the families who have contacted me looking for camaraderie, resources, advice, etc. are raising a gender nonconforming child that is not biologically theirs. I wrote about it back in February. * * * Speaking of parents/caregivers contacting me for help, I have two parents looking to connect with other families in their area who are also raising gender nonconforming boys. If there is a gender nonconforming boy in your life who is looking to playdate and you live in Boston or the New Jersey/Philadelphia area please let me know and I’ll make the e-introduction. * * * If you live in the Seattle area, click here for a list of Gender Diversity resources that one of my readers recently sent to me. Gender Diversity provides services and support that help families understand the wide range of naturally occurring gender identities and expressions that exist. Their monthly support groups for parents and guardians of gender nonconforming and transgender children began in 2008, making it one of the longest running and largest network of support groups in the country. Their groups meet at Seattle Children’s Hospital, the Polyclinic Madison Center, and a number of other locations throughout the greater Puget Sound area. They have support groups for families with kids ages 11 and under and 12 to 20; fathers only groups; kids play groups and more.  I wish we had this in Orange County, California! * * * I have a reader (location unknown) who is looking for resources specifically for parents/caregivers raising gender nonconforming girls.  Blogs?  Websites?  Groups?  Anything?  Send me suggestions if you have any. * * * And, finally, for pride season, FarFaria (a subscription-based children’s storybook app for the iPad) is releasing four awesome books. FarFaria has always published stories with characters of diverse backgrounds. These stories encourage acceptance of and kindness towards others as a family value. To help parents strengthen this value in their family FarFaria is releasing four new stories in June. Stories like “Patrick’s Pride” (June 6), “Henry the Venus Flytrap” (June 12), “The Boy with the Pink Socks” (June 20) and “Kindness Grows” (June 25) encourage values of acceptance and appreciation of diversity in young readers. C.J. especially likes Patrick’s Pride, which features a lion cub with two moms.  Check it out!   