Friday Fodder: Gender Spectrum, PFLAG and Navy SEAL Edition
Sat, 08 Jun 2013 04:46:55 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/06/07/friday-fodder-gender-spectrum-pflag-and-navy-seal-edition/
All Posts Gender Spectrum Navy Navy SEAL PFLAG 
 Who’s going to the 2013 Gender Spectrum Conference?  Me! The 2013 Gender Spectrum Conference is designed to create a welcoming and supportive community for all gender nonconforming youth, their allies, caregivers and professionals. The conference provides the most up-to-date quality information and resources, with more than 45 workshops around relevant topics in the fields of medicine, mental health, education, the law and social issues.  I’ll be speaking.  😉 Click here for more information. * * * PFLAG wants your help! There are currently more than forty prospective PFLAG chapters in the process of being started, which would grow PFLAG’s network to 400 chapters in communities in all 50 states. Most of this growth is happening in areas where the introduction of equality legislation is progress and even being out as a LGBTQ person or an ally is an act of tremendous courage. Two small, no-cost actions on your part can help PFLAG National create and support new chapters! 1.  Esurance has long supported LGBT equality. In fact they offer same-sex couples married rates, even in states that have not yet passed a law in support of marriage equality!  This year, Esurance is donating $100,000 to three worthy charities, including PFLAG! Each will get a percentage of the donation based on the number of votes received. Visit on.fb.me/15KFgSD once per day, between now and June 30th, to cast your vote for PFLAG National to earn up to $100K from Esurance! 2. For over a decade, Orbitz has supported dozens of LGBT and HIV/AIDS charities nationwide and now, Orbitz is helping to support PFLAG as it further expands the PFLAG chapter network across the country. Visit bit.ly/15apGz7 to download Orbitz’ FREE app for your phone, and Orbitz will donate up to $10 to PFLAG National to support the creation and growth of new chapters. * * * Read this:  Defying Stereotypes: Navy SEAL Team 6 Soldier Comes Out As Transgender In A Powerful New Book     