Friday Fodder: Whoopsie, Forgot To Publish This On Friday Edition
Mon, 20 May 2013 03:46:25 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/05/19/friday-fodder-whoopsie-forgot-to-publish-this-on-friday-edition/
All Posts 
 DEAR ABBY: I am a longtime reader but a first-time writer. My problem has been bothering me for some time now. We have a grandson who is 4 and very much a “princess boy.” He likes girl toys and dresses and doesn’t like any of his boy toys. We’re at a loss about how to handle this. He’s an adorable little boy and we love him to pieces. His parents don’t accept this behavior, and I’m afraid it will affect him now and in the future. How would you handle this? We don’t say anything to his parents because they are pretty much in denial. — WORRIED GRANDMA What was Dear Abby’s reply? Read it here. * * * The high street pharmacy chain Boots has admitted it was wrong to use separate in-store signs labeling girls’ and boys’ toys after shoppers took to Twitter and Facebook to accuse the retailer of sexist behavior. In a statement posted on Facebook on Tuesday it said it was taking steps to remove the signs and that it was dismayed by customers’ reaction to the move. “It was never our intention to stereotype certain toys. It’s clear we have got this signage wrong, and we’re taking immediate steps to remove it from store.” Read the full Guardian article here. * * * Not so long ago, Toni Bias dreamed of playing in the W.N.B.A. But after starring on the girls’ junior varsity basketball team as a high school freshman, Toni came out as transgender last summer, began going by the name Tony and started transitioning to male. At the time, California had no policy governing transgender high school athletes. Already finding himself the target of bullies, who often taunt him with “he-she,” Tony feared he would have to endure even more abuse if he pushed to try out for the boys’ team. So he made a wrenching decision: he quit basketball. Read this New York Times article about the rules and regulations for transgender athletes…and learn if Tony returned to the sport he loves. * * * A Pawtucket (Rhode Island) family has organized a first-of-its-kind support group for young transgender children. Using their experiences as a family, they hope to help children navigate the challenges of growing up in the wrong body. Read more about their family and get info here.   