Friday Fodder: Parenting Done Wrong Edition
Sat, 04 May 2013 04:11:33 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/05/03/friday-fodder-parenting-done-wrong-edition/
All Posts Gender LGBTQ parenting The Persecution of Mildred Dunlap 
 Courtesy of A Game of Romance and Winchester blog. I hear from a lot of you who say that when it comes to parenting I’m doing it right.  And, I never ever hesitate to let someone know if I think that they are doing it right. Well, read this for an example of a father who is doing it wrong — if you ask me.  It starts with his son wanting a sketch pad and him calling it a “gay ass notebook.”  It gets worse from there.  Charming. * * * “Over the past few decades, we’ve made a lot of changes in the English language to make it more gender neutral. We say “police officer” instead of “policeman” and “people” instead of “mankind”…But there’s one thing we can’t seem to get right: pronouns. We know that if you say, “Every child has his monkey,” it excludes girls. So instead we might say, “Every child has their monkey,” even though it’s not grammatically correct. And “Every child has his or her monkey,” is just clunky.” When it comes to pronouns, C.J. prefers his masculine…even though when it comes to clothes and playthings, C.J. prefers his feminine. Click here to read an article on NPR’s website about some kids in Baltimore who have come up with a solution that has caught the attention of linguists.  Yo! * * * Last night I finished a book written by one of my readers and I loved it.  I’m a huge fan of LGBTQ issues and historical fiction, so her book was tailor-made for me.  Paulette Mahurin’s The Persecution of Mildred Dunlap has been dubbed Brokeback Mountain for women. “The year was filled with memorable historical events: the Dreyfus Affair divided France; Booker T. Washington gave his Atlanta address; the United States expanded the effects of the Monroe Doctrine in South America; and Oscar Wilde was tried and convicted for gross indecency under Britain’s recently passed law that made sex between males a criminal offense. When news of Wilde’s conviction went out over telegraphs worldwide, it threw a small Nevada town into chaos. This is the story of what happened when the lives of its citizens were impacted the Wilde news. It is a chronicle of hatred and prejudice with all its unintended and devastating consequences, and how love and friendship bring strength and healing.” I loved the characters.  I wanted to sit around and talk books with partners Mildred and Edra and their friends Gus and Charley.  I wanted C.J. to play with Mabel.  I despised bully Josie. Click here to download the book free for Kindle or purchase the paperback.   