Saturday Fodder: I’ve Been Off My Blogging Game This Week Edition
Sun, 07 Apr 2013 03:14:29 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/04/06/saturday-fodder-ive-been-off-my-blogging-game-this-week-edition/
All Posts Gender gender nonconforming Gender Spectrum LGBTQ 
 Montreal Family Looking to Connect I’ve been contacted by a family in Montreal that is raising a young transgender daughter (assigned male at birth) and looking to connect with other families of young transgender children in the Montreal area.  They are also part of a monthly support/action-oriented gender group that welcomes new members. The family and the group are looking for other resources in the area, as well.  If you fit the bill, send me an email at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com and I’ll get you connected. * * *  Families with Gifted GLBTQ Youth Webinar Date: May 14, 2013  // Time: 7:30 p.m. EDT  // Presenter: Terry Friedrichs, PhD, EdD Gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (GLBTQ) youth experience much higher-than-average rates of verbal and physical harassment, parental rejection, and suicide. However, these students also have great potential for academic success, as seen by their disproportionately-high representation in programs for the gifted. This session explains how parents, siblings, and teachers can build on these students’ potential and can diminish the effect of others’ harm.  The cost is $40. Click here to register or get more info.   * * * Registration Now Open For Gender Spectrum’s Professional Workshop Join Gender Spectrum for a full day of learning and professional growth at the 2013 Gender Spectrum Professional’s Workshop on July 12, 2013, in Berkeley, CA. This workshop is a special gathering for professional service providers–therapists, physicians, attorneys, educators, faith leaders, youth advocates, and others–who work with (or would like to work with) gender nonconforming and transgender children and teens, and the adults who support them.  Building on the success of previous years, the 2013 event will offer a wider range of sessions than ever before. Click here to register or learn more.     