Saturday Fodder: Roland Humphrey Edition
Sat, 30 Mar 2013 22:20:58 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/03/30/saturday-fodder-roland-humphrey-edition/
All Posts bullying Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Raising My Rainbow Roland Humphrey 
 This is what the book looks like. We have discovered another great book for/about gender creative kids.  C.J. really, really, really loves this one.  Seriously, it’s one of his new favorites.  He would like you to know that the book “rhymes really great” and has “pretty collage pictures” and it’s “about a boy who likes girl stuff.” Roland Humphrey is Wearing a WHAT? by Eileen Kiernan-Johnson is a new children’s picture book about a boy’s quest to be his authentic pink and sparkly self in a world that is often inhospitable to boys who don’t conform to strict gender norms around boys dress and play.  Roland is sad and confused when the kids at school tell him that he can’t like “girl colors.” It’s a tale that finds Roland as confused about the rules as those around him are about what he wears. In a humorous journey that raises questions about what is normal and why, Roland Humphrey is a gorgeously illustrated book that will open the minds and hearts to accept and cherish the Roland Humphreys of the world. How come it’s okay for girls to dress like boys, but not for boys to dress like girls? Roland Humphrey is a fictional version of a real boy; a boy having a happy childhood that doesn’t fit into a conventional box of what others may expect of a boy. He’s not constrained by what he wears, what colors he likes or how he plays with other kids. Watching a beautiful child grow up, we are seeing how our Roland Humphrey is running into other people’s expectations of how he should behave. Roland decides not be scared of what other people will think about him. Author Eileen Kiernan-Johnson has been kind enough to offer the book to Raising My Rainbow readers for $10.99 and ship it for free.  To get this offer:  Send an email to rolandhumphreybook@gmail.com Put RAISING MY RAINBOW in the subject line In the body of the email, indicate how many copies if the book you want The author will generate a PayPal request for payment from there Easy peasy cheddar cheesy (as C.J. would say)    