Friday Fodder: When adults are overly concerned about which toilet a six-year-old pees into, there’s a problem
Sat, 02 Mar 2013 00:29:32 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/03/01/friday-fodder-when-adults-are-overly-concerned-about-which-toilet-a-six-year-old-pees-into-theres-a-problem/
All Posts CNN Colorado Emerson College Punched In The Head transgender 
 When adults are overly concerned about which toilet a six-year-old pees into, there’s a problem. With the adults. Not the child. This week a transgender rights group announced that it has filed a discrimination complaint in Colorado on behalf of a first-grader who was born a boy but identifies and presents as a girl. The girl is recognized by the state as a female and has attended elementary school only as a female. She has always used the girls’ restrooms, until this December when she was told that she had to use either the boys’ bathroom or the unisex bathroom in the school office. I’ve been asked to comment about the legal and civil rights that the little girl has or doesn’t have. I can’t. I don’t live in her state or know her laws. But, I can tell you that I’m sure there are bigger issues in Colorado and the country than where the little girl goes to wash her hands and powder her nose. Adults, the school, the district and the state should focus on those issues and on trying to make this world a better place for everybody, instead of making it a worse place for a first-grader. If you ask me, the school administrators aren’t thinking about their student’s educational, mental or emotional health – they are thinking about her genitalia.  And, that’s disturbing.  http://www.cnn.com/2013/02/27/us/colorado-transgender-girl-school/index.html * * * These frat boys at Emerson College helped to restore some of my faith in humanity this week, when they announced that they were raising money to fund “top surgery” for one of their members who is transgender and recently had the surgery declined by his insurance company. “Phi Alpha Tau members, defying the conventional stereotype of a fraternity, launched a campaign on an online fundraising site — Indiegogo.com — with a goal of collecting the $8,100 needed for the procedure, scheduled for May.” They raised more than $16,000.  http://www.cnn.com/2013/02/27/us/massachusetts-fraternity-sex-change/index.html * * * Who wants to go to the 2013 Gender Spectrum Conference in Berkeley, CA, this July? I do, I do! Registration opened this week. Click here to learn more and sign up. The Gender Spectrum Conference is a special weekend where you can: • Meet other parents and caregivers at various points in their journeys of raising gender nonconforming and transgender children and teens • Offer your gender nonconforming or transgender child (ages 5 and up) the gift of meeting other children in similar circumstances • Attend over 40 workshops for adults around relevant topics in the fields of medicine, mental health, education, the law, social issues, and more • Explore issues specifically focused on children who are gender creative but do not identify as transgender • Schedule one-on-one time at our Family Support Center with experienced professionals in the areas of medicine, mental health, the law and spiritual guidance * * * Who wants to be on TV? I’ve been contacted by an award-winning production company and a top-rated national cable network that are casting for a new reality series that will explore unique perspectives on parenting. They are eager to include a gender nonconforming family. Click here to learn more.   