Friday Fodder: Happy Birthday C.J.’s Dad Edition
Sat, 16 Feb 2013 00:57:55 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/02/15/friday-fodder-happy-birthday-c-j-s-dad-edition/
All Posts C.J.'s Dad hair hair cut Monster High Parents Magazine Valentine's Day Valentines 
 Happy Birthday to C.J.’s Dad — the most kick-ass husband and father ever.  C.J.’s Dad doesn’t get nearly enough credit for how amazing he is.  Which is probably my fault because I don’t go on and on about him very often when blogging. “Where’s this kid’s father?!” is a comment I get a lot.  It’s not really a question; rather, people are inferring that if my son had a strong, positive, available role model in his life he wouldn’t be gender creative. Well, C.J.’s Dad is right here, right beside me.  And, he’s wherever C.J. needs him to be – whether it’s behind him, beside him, ahead of him or carrying him.  He’s never been anywhere but where our family has needed him to be.  Every wife and child should be so lucky. I love you, baby.  Happy Birthday! * * * C.J.’s hair is practically a trending topic.  So, here’s the story on C.J.’s hair for all of those who are interested.  It’s cut short in what the majority of society would consider to be a “boy’s haircut.”  Why do I have it cut that way?  Because that’s how C.J. wants it. This time last year he wanted to grow it out “like a girl.”  So we did.  A week before kindergarten started in September he asked to “cut it short like a boy.”  So we did.  This week he asked to “grow it out like a girl.”  So we are.  As always, we are just along for the ride.  Stay tuned and send some detangler! * * * Happy Valentine’s Day from C.J. and his family.  He went with Monster High Valentines again this year.  Be yourself, be unique, be a monster, be my Valentine. * * * Raising My Rainbow has been selected as a finalist in the 2013 Parents Blog Awards in the category of “Most Likely to Inspire You to Change the World.” Voting is super simple.  Just click here and select my blog under the “Most Likely to Inspire You to Change the World” category.  You can vote once a day until Feb. 24. I would love to win this honor because Parents Magazine is one of the leading (if not the leading) parenting magazine in the U.S. and exposure to my blog would no doubt help some of their millions of readers better understand gender; consider their expectations for their child when it comes to gender, sex and sexuality; and hopefully encourage them to educate cisgender children to be more empathetic and kind towards LGBTQ children. A special thanks to the person or people who nominated me!  I’m flattered and grateful.   