Friday Fodder: Vote for Me & KidzCanDesign Edition
Sat, 09 Feb 2013 04:56:26 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/02/08/friday-fodder-vote-for-me-kidzcandesign-edition/
All Posts 2013 Parents Blog Awards iO Tillett Wright KidzCanDesign Parents Magazine 
 Can I ask you for a favor? Raising My Rainbow has been selected as a finalist in the 2013 Parents Blog Awards in the category of “Most Likely to Inspire You to Change the World.” Voting is super simple.  Just click here and select my blog under the “Most Likely to Inspire You to Change the World” category.  You can vote once a day until Feb. 24. I would love to win this honor because Parents Magazine is one of the leading (if not the leading) parenting magazine in the U.S. and exposure to my blog would no doubt help some of their millions of readers better understand gender; consider their expectations for their child when it comes to gender, sex and sexuality; and hopefully encourage them to educate cisgender children to be more empathetic and kind towards LGBTQ children. A special thanks to the person or people who nominated me!  I’m flattered and grateful. * * * Last week may have been C.J.’s birthday, but I’m the one who received the most amazing gift! KidzCanDesign is a company that converts a child’s work of art into custom, high quality, sterling silver jewelry.  They took one of C.J.’s self-portraits and turned it into a necklace that I will treasure forever. The self-portrait that they used was drawn by C.J. right as kindergarten started in September, right before he drew himself as a boy for the first time ever.  So, the art is special to me and always will be.  I can’t get enough of this necklace. Check out KidzCanDesign and if you choose to order something use the promo code RAINBOW for 35 percent off of your order and free U.S. shipping.  You can also like them at Facebook/KidzCanDesign. * * * Finally, you all HAVE to watch this video.  The content, the way it is presented, artist iO Tillett Wright’s delivery, intelligence, compassion….I can’t stop thinking about it.  I’m fascinated by iO Tillett Wright’s gender nonconforming childhood. “I grew up in a very sheltered environment. I was raised in downtown Manhattan in the early 1980s … Where I come from, if you weren’t a drag queen or a radical thinker or a performance artist of some kind, you were the weirdo.” “iO Tillett Wright thanks her parents for not asking her to define herself as a child. Her experience of growing up without having check boxes like “female,” “male,” “gay” or straight” thoroughly infuses her art.”    