Friday Fodder: Giveaway and Camp Aranu’tiq Edition
Fri, 25 Jan 2013 23:08:47 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2013/01/25/friday-fodder-giveaway-and-camp-aranutiq-edition/
All Posts Camp Aranu'tiq gender identity One of Kind Colouring Book The Purim Superhero 
 I have found THE NEATEST coloring book about gender identity for C.J.  It’s called One of Kind Colouring Book 1. Surprise Box and it was sent to me by author/illustrator and Raising My Rainbow reader Geneviève Labelle of Montréal, Québec. “At one time, there was pink-only colouring books aimed at little girls filled with princesses and charming princes and blue-and-khaki-only colouring books roaming with superheroes and brave firemen. Between them, nothingness.  The nature of each one of us is more complex than what is offered by the mass culture industry for which colouring books are powerful promotional items.  Geneviève Labelle proposes an heteroclite collection of drawings that incites us to rise above stereotypes. This page from the book is soooooo C.J. This amusing colouring book will satisfy anyone who believes that identity is a conception of the self that is always under construction, just like the Montreal’s Olympic Stadium’s roof.” C.J. loves the coloring book and it provides a humorous read for adults too.  To learn more or order, click here. To win a copy of the book, leave a comment below.  The winner will be announced next Friday.  Good luck! * * * Enrollment is open for Camp Aranu’tiq in California.  Camp Aranu’tiq is a weeklong, overnight summer camp for transgender and gender-variant youth ages eight through 15.  It’s a place where life experiences are shared and lifelong friendships are made. The dates are Sunday, June 30, through Saturday, July 6, and space is limited.  There is a camp in New England as well.  Learn more about both camps by clicking here. * * * The first LGBTQ-inclusive Jewish Children’s book in English is out.  The Purim Superhero is about Nate who loves aliens and really wants to wear an alien costume for Purim, but his friends are all dressing as superheroes and he wants to fit in. What will he do? With the help of his two dads he makes a surprising decision. Published by Kar-Ben Publishing, an award-winning publisher of Jewish children’s books, the manuscript is the winner of Keshet’s national book-writing contest. * * * Have you seen this rad teenager?  Watch as this high school senior publicly tells 300+ students that he is an LGBTQ teen.  The applause and cheers that he gets make me giddy and his strength gives me hope.  The people who raised him did something right.    