If There Were Ever A Day To “Let Kids Be Kids” It Would Be Today
Sun, 16 Dec 2012 00:49:13 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2012/12/15/if-there-were-ever-a-day-to-let-kids-be-kids-it-would-be-today/
All Posts Barbie Disney Princess gender nonconforming Kindergarten Newton Newton School Shootings parenting 
    Dear C.J.’s Mom,Tomorrow 20 children will not wake up and have a choice as to what shoes to put on. If there was ever a day in history where people who love and advocate for children should come together and shout from the tops of mountains to “let kids be kids” it would be today. If there was ever a day to step back and look with wonder at our children for the joyfully imaginative way they approach their lives it would be today. If there was ever a day to stop and say we only have today, what a gift I have in my son or daughter, I will not let anyone or anything stand in the way of what makes them happy it would be today. I don’t mean to co-op one tragedy to pontificate about another. I only mean to suggest that life is fragile, unpredictable and beautiful. To wring hands and gnash teeth over pink zebra striped flats is such a waste. Such a terrible, painful waste. Tomorrow morning 20 moms and dads will wake up with out little feet to put in shoes. I don’t know what to be more broken about…the senseless deaths of 20 beautiful children or scandalous flats on a beautiful little boy! God bless you and your family! Auntie Mip This was a comment I received in response to my last blog post and the Newton school shootings.  I was planning on writing similar thoughts to post, but I feel like this Raising My Rainbow commenter said it better than I would have. C.J. is in kindergarten and I can’t stop picturing him and his classmates when I think about the tragedy that happened in Newton.  Some people spend so much time and negative energy  judging him and us because he likes to play with “girl toys,” wear “girl clothes” and be treated like a girl.  But, you know what?  He is here, he is happy and he is healthy.  The parents of the 20 children (and the adults) killed yesterday can not say the same.  People would rather trade parenting places me over the parents of the Newton school shooting victims without thought. It should puts things into perspective for people.  I hope it does.  As I put him to bed last night I whispered into C.J.’s ear, as I do every night, “I love you no matter what.”  I hugged him a little longer and thanked the universe that he was still breathing in his room…in his Disney Princess nightgown, cradling his Barbie.        