Shoemaggedon
Wed, 12 Dec 2012 03:46:11 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2012/12/11/shoemaggedon/
All Posts bullying effeminate gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow shoemaggedon TheStir.com 
 Hi Everybody! FYI, C.J. really wants this for Christmas. In case you were wondering what to get him. Pardon me for being a bit of a flakey, unorganized blogger during this holiday season.  I’ve been very busy managing C.J.’s Christmas expectations.  You see, when he was finished composing it, his wish list was two pages long, front and back, single-spaced with half-inch margins.  He was under the impression that everything that he put on his list would appear under the tree on Christmas morning.  I had to explain how a wish list differed from an order form.  I felt like Scrooge. Anyway, let’s get down to business… Things that caught my attention recently: Move over Toemaggedon!  It’s time for Shoemaggedon!  Yay! Photograph Of Little Boy Wearing Pink Shoes To Preschool Sparks Heated Blogosphere Debate, Huffington Post, 12/11/12 “A viral photograph of a young boy who opted to wear pink shoes on his first day of preschool has sparked intense debate in the blogosphere.” Read what one disapproving blogger wrote about the mother who dared to let her son wear (gasp!) pink zebra-print shoes to school.   My son wears these shoes..and leg warmers, Tinkerbell socks, jean skirt, infinity scarf.. Mom Who Let Son Wear Pink Shoes to Preschool Was Asking for Controversy, TheStir.com, 12/10/12   “I couldn’t help but feel kind of bad for the poor kid.  Because…(he) wound up with people whispering behind his back and making nasty remarks about him. And for those exact reasons…I wouldn’t let my own son wear a pair of pink shoes to school. Because at only 6 years old and being in the first grade, I’m just not sure it’s fair to subject him to being bullied or treated unfairly all because most people associate pink with girls and blue with boys.”  The author of that blog post would hate my way of parenting.  For sure.  That’s okay, unlike that blogger, I would never ask my children to hide their likes just because they might be disliked by others.  The “he’s got to man up” and “well, he’s gotta learn sometime” and “what did he expect?” attitudes of years bygone are harmful to the child who’s different.  I hope more people start to realize that. They.  Are.  Just.  Shoes.  And, you know what?  There are kids in this world with no shoes at all. C.J. on his way to a holiday play. Sometimes it catches me off guard when he looks so masculine. Not last blog post but the one before, I announced a giveaway and called for entries.  The winner gets THE ADVENTURES OF TULIP, BIRTHDAY WISH FAIRY and BACKWARDS DAY — two children’s books written for gender-independent kids and families. And the winner is….Emily (who commented on 11/22 at 4:04 a.m.).  Hi Emily, I’ll email you, check your inbox. The final post of the year will be up next week! Cheers, C.J.’s Mom     