Thanksgiving Housekeeping & Giveaway
Thu, 22 Nov 2012 01:51:44 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2012/11/21/thanksgiving-housekeeping-giveaway/
All Posts Backwards Day Gender gender creative gender independent gender nonconforming Jim Henson LGBTQ Neil Patrick Harris Neil's Puppet Dreams Raising My Rainbow Thanksgiving The Adventures of Tulip transgender 
 Happy Thanksgiving week! Among the many things that I am grateful for are this blog and its readers.  C.J.’s Brother is thankful for his family, his house and his video games. C.J. is thankful for his dolls, his grandma and grandpa, his other grandma and grandpa and lights so he doesn’t fall down in the dark…especially when he is wearing high heels. C.J.’s sassy turkey.We are also thankful for the families with gender nonconforming and LGBTQ kids who we have had the pleasure of getting to know over the last two years. I’ve had a few families contact me recently asking for help in finding gender nonconforming families in their area.  So, if your child is gender nonconforming or LGBTQ and you live in Western Massachusetts or the greater Seattle area of Washington, please email me at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com so that I can set you up on a potential playdate. I want to start helping more families connect, so if you are looking for another gender nonconforming family in your area, please email me with your location so that I can get to work.  This could be fun; I just have to figure out how to do it in a way that is safe and secure for everybody.  My wheels are turning. Now, it’s time for a giveaway!  I recently read two children’s books that were written for gender-independent kids and families that some of you may enjoy. THE ADVENTURES OF TULIP, BIRTHDAY WISH FAIRY follows title-character Tulip as he deals with the birthday wishes of all the nine-year-olds in North America. Tulip receives a wish from a child known as David who wishes to live as Daniela. He doesn’t understand how to help, so he seeks the wise counsel of the Wish Fairy Captain and learns some new Wish Fairy Skills (while also introducing the concept of trans-identified children in a friendly, sympathetic way). BACKWARDS DAY, set on the planet Tenalp, introduces us to a world where there are seventeen seasons, including one where bubblegum falls from the sky for three days and a single day when everything – everything everywhere – is backwards. Andrea looks eagerly forward to Backwards Day every year, so she can turn into a boy for the day. But one year she doesn’t turn along with everyone else. She’s miserable. The very next day, however, she turns into a boy – and stays that way! To enter to win one copy of each book, leave a comment at the end of this post letting me know which gender or LGBTQ organization(s) you are most thankful for.  A winner will be selected randomly by C.J. And, finally, I try to stay on topic here, as much as I struggle to do so in real life.  But, allow me to digress for a moment.  I was recently sent a link to Neil Patrick Harris’s new web series titled “Neil’s Puppet Dreams.”  Neil Patrick Harris and The Jim Henson Company together?  Please, what could be better?  This is going to be huge.  Watch it….but not with the kids around.      