Sing Sow!
Thu, 12 Apr 2012 15:09:57 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2012/04/12/sing-sow/
All Posts Main Site Header Abby Cadabby Easter gender creative gender nonconforming Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Tsingsao 
 Setting: Chinese Food Restaurant, Friday Night, Orange County, Calif. “That guy is FAT! And HAPPY! I like his skirt!” C.J. said pointing to the restaurant’s statue of Buddha that was as tall as he is. C.J. put his arm around Buddha like they were best buddies George Clooney and Brad Pitt goofing for photographers on the red carpet. I gave C.J. a look and he backed away from Buddha. A lady in the waiting area giggled.  C.J. shot her a knowing smile as if to say, “yeah lady, you know what’s up.” (Two minutes later) “C.J., sit down and stop touching your Mom’s earrings, please,” C.J.’s Dad said from across the table as he perused the menu. (Two minutes later) “C.J., get out from under the table and sit down. Fine, get Abby Cadabby off of the floor and then sit down,” said C.J’s Dad. (Two minutes later) “C.J. put your lip gloss back in your purse and sit down,” C.J.’s Dad said. (Two minutes later) “C.J., just stay out of your purse, please, and sit down,” C.J.’s Dad said. The server approached our table to take our drink order. “Do you have lemonade?” C.J. asked. “Ohhhhhh, pink lemonade? Dat’s my favorite because pink is my favorite color. I’ll have dat.” “I’ll have a Tsingsao beer, please,” said C.J.’s Dad. “Yes. Tsingsao,” the Chinese server said in his heavily affected broken English. “SING SOW!” C.J. said in his best Chinese, five-year-old affected English. “For God’s sake, get your son under control!” C.J.’s Dad said to me, his Irish eyes smiling and his fair-skinned face turning red. “SING SOW!” C.J. said out loud again, liking the sound of it. “It’s like being with a drunk, 21-year-old girl 24/7,” C.J.’s Dad whispered across the table to me.  I had to agree. Sometimes that’s exactly what it’s like. This is the outfit that C.J. put together for our "Hot Date." C.J. was a little hyper and out of sorts that night, but it was due to excitement, I can promise you that. His brother was at a sleepover, so C.J. had us all to himself. Instead of staying home to eat, we told C.J. that the three of us would go out on a date. “A HOT date?!” he asked as we were at home deciding where to eat. I should have known then the kind of mood he was in and considered staying home. When my hubby and I have a date night he always tells the boys that he is taking mommy out on a “hot date,” so, naturally, C.J. expected that our date night would be nothing short of hot. We let him pick the restaurant. “Chinese!” It’s his favorite. The combination of not having to share our attention with his brother, being out on a “Hot Date” and getting to pick the restaurant, had him intoxicated with joy and power. A lethal combo when it comes to kids. In his mind, the night was young and it could go anywhere, it was full of potential. Perhaps he’d get to eat more than one fortune cookie, maybe we’d stay out late and miss bath time, maybe we’d forget to make him brush his teeth. The night was drunk on Tsingsao beer with possibilities. C.J. slid out of his seat while his father and I were discussing our days. He stood next to our booth in the aisle, put his hands on his hips and proceeded to drop it like it’s hot. The kids at the next booth laughed. My husband’s face flushed and I bit my lips to stop giggles from making a necessary exit. “Seriously woman, get control of your son!” C.J.’s Dad said to me. Guilty as charged. Sometimes I let C.J. hold on a little too tightly to his confidence and bravado because I feel like he needs it or will need it when dealing with haters in life. You need those two things (among other things) when you are growing up gender nonconforming and are among the youngest members of the LGBTQ community. But, I also don’t want my child to be poorly behaved. We are working on finding a balance. “C.J. baby, we don’t drop it like it’s hot in restaurants,” I said with a smile as I pulled him into the booth and gave him a hug. His dad glared at both of us and, then, smiled. Two Easter baskets for two boys. Which one is C.J.'s? Hope you had a nice Easter! We got quiet as we waited for our food to arrive and hoped C.J. would pull it together long enough for us eat, pay and leave (our version of Eat, Pray, Love). “SING SOW!” It came out of nowhere. C.J.’s Dad shot me a look and I stifled a giggle. Now I was feeling drunk and all I was sipping on was my good friend Arnold Palmer. C.J.’s Dad started talking about a case he was dealing with at work and was explaining how he arrested a guy. “Oh no you didn’t girlfriend!” C.J. said loudly with a flick of the wrist and a snap. Our food arrived. C.J. shoved fried rice into his mouth with his spoon and, when that became too laborious, he used his dirty little fingers which were stained from the day’s art projects. We were driving home and relishing in the quiet of the car. “SING SOW!” C.J. shouted from the back seat with such enthusiasm that the contents of his purse dumped onto the floor of the car. “Oh my!” he exclaimed. Twenty-one-year-old drunk girl indeed.   