A Few Things….
Wed, 04 Apr 2012 04:18:29 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2012/04/03/a-few-things/
All Posts A Note To My Kid anotetomykid Bank Street College CSUF Disney Disney Princess gender creative gender nonconforming He Sparkles Huffington Post Karyl Ketchum Kate Middleton Orange County Single Dad Laughing 
 I haven’t done one of these housekeeping-type emails in 2012 and it’s long overdue, so here it goes. 1.) California State University, Fullerton – a university in our home county (shout out to the Titans!) – has just launched an extended education course titled “Understanding and Addressing Bullying.”  The course’s emphasis is on bullying related to gender identity, gender presentation, sexual orientation and perceived sexual orientation. It’s the first professional development curriculum course of its kind for education professionals and CSUF is the only university to offer a course like this for credit (read: taking this course may up a teacher’s salary).  Better yet?  It’s headed up by Karyl Ketchum.  Google her.  Ketchum is an anti-bullying superhero who I’ve seen at work firsthand.  Girlfriend is fierce.  Trust. Know a teacher, school administrator, staff member, district official or school board member in California?  If so, please, please, please have them check out this course that they can easily take over summer vacay and be ready to start implementing by the 2012/2013 school year.  The fate of kids like C.J. may depend on it. http://extension.fullerton.edu/bullying/ 2.) Thanks to Raising My Rainbow super-fan Tina who, after reading last week’s post, sent me a link to the most fabulous free Disney paper dolls.  The doll is Kate Middleton and her options for clothing are all infamous gowns worn by Disney Princesses.  C.J. played with Kate and her Disney dresses long enough for me to make dinner and do the laundry uninterrupted…that’s like two weeks in mom-years. “Kate Middleton’s dress designer is a royally guarded secret, but just imagine if she could walk down the aisle in a dress designed by Disney! Your tea party guests will have a ball fitting Kate into the Disney Princess’ famed frocks, from Cinderella’s wedding gown to Aurora’s twirling pink confection.” http://family.go.com/printables/article-1001999-princess-kate-paper-doll-t/?cmp=SMC-FB_Fcom_%5Bkate_printables%5D_%5Bdisney%5D_%5BFamily.com 3.) People ask me for resources for raising gender creative kids a lot.  I usually have to send a sloppy list of sites and books and articles that have helped me along the way.  Then, this popped into my inbox: http://libguides.bankstreet.edu/transchildren It’s a research guide that has been created at Bank Street College Library titled “Resources for Families of Gender Variant and Transgender Children.”  Little did they know that they just made my life a little easier.  Stop by and check it out.  It’s a work in progress and they are open to suggestions and feedback. 4.)  After my post about those stupid Twitter homophobes, I learned about anotetomykid.com.  A Note to My Kid gives the LGBTQ community, their parents, family and friends the opportunity to share their unconditional love with one another through open letters and it reminds members of the LGBTQ community that there is a lot of love and support out there.  Check it out, I did and got so involved reading that I was nearly late to pick up C.J. from school. 5.)  Some people are still pissed that I don’t show any of our faces on the blog.  Some people are so used to it that they have forgotten that we actually have faces.  At any rate, if you want to follow – through photos — a family raising a gender creative child you should check out www.hesparkles.wordpress.com.  The mom is an amazing photographer.  That’s another reason why I don’t include more/better photos.  I know a good photo when I see it, I just can’t take one.  If I want to produce a reasonably-eye-pleasing-photograph I have to use Hipstamatic on my phone.  I haven’t even ventured into the Instagram world yet, much to Uncle Uncle’s embarrassment.  I digress, cheers to Noah and his mom.  We love boys who sparkle. 6.) What I’m reading this week (or read recently and the weeks are blending together): A Teen’s Brave Response to “I’m Christian, Unless You’re Gay” on Single Dad Laughing A Father’s Reaction to His Very Young Gay Son on Huffington Post 7.) Bravo to you if you just read all of that.  With all of that “business” out of the way, a new post is coming soon.   