{"title": "Straight People Can Come To My Hotel If\u2026.", "date": "Tue, 25 Apr 2017 15:57:40 +0000", "link": "https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2017/04/25/straight-people-can-come-to-my-hotel-if/", "tags": ["All Posts", "Gay", "Gay pride", "Gender", "gender creative", "gender nonconforming", "Hotel", "LGBTQ", "Montage", "Palmetto Bluff", "parenting", "South Carolina", "transgender"], "text": " For spring break my family went on vacation with our friends. We stayed at the Montage Palmetto Bluff. It was beyond spectacular! We were allowed to ride bikes on paths all over the resort. I rode my bike so much. I saw my first alligator that wasn\u2019t in a zoo. I went to the pool and played with my friends for a long time. I took tennis lessons and now I love tennis. On the last night, we had a nice dinner and I wore a dress. Then, I had a sleepover with my girl friends! I decided that when I grow up I\u2019m going to make my own hotel resort. It will be mostly for drag queens, gender nonconforming people and transgender people. A lot of transgender and gender nonconforming people like me don\u2019t feel comfortable going everywhere. At my hotel resort everybody will always feel comfortable and welcome no matter what. Straight people can go to my hotel resort if they are nice and don\u2019t worry or even think twice about gender nonconforming and transgender people. If straight people think transgender and gender nonconforming people are just normal people they are welcome at my hotel resort. The straight people can dress however they want, too. The straight men can wear dresses if they want and the ladies can wear tuxedos. (Just nothing inappropriate.) Drag queens can wear lots of makeup and anything they want. Gender nonconforming and transgender people can go out in any gender identity they want and nobody will judge them. I promise. The number one rule at my hotel resort is \u201cyou can never judge anyone for the color of their skin or the gender they are or the people they love.\u201d I will have activities for everyone to do. There will be tennis, bocce ball, zip lining, crafts and a big pool in the shape of a heart and it will be nice and warm. There will be two hot tubs. There will also be a playground with gymnastics equipment. People will ride bikes everywhere. They will also be able to ride in golf cart taxis. The golf cart driver will pull up to people and say \u201cHey, gurl, hey! Do you need a ride?! Hop in!\u201d I want to have a tree house at my hotel resort, but that might cost too much money for our financial plan. The main hotel building will be a creamy white and the steps leading up to it will say \u201cYou Are Amazing.\u201d That will be the first thing people see when they arrive. And they will believe it! There will be fancy people wearing rainbow colors for gay pride who open the front doors for guests. Each night you can make s\u2019mores by a big fire pit and talk to people and make new friends. There will be shops all around my hotel resort. A wig shop, a dress shop, a shoe shop, a makeup shop and a craft store. There will be a gift shop that sells marbles with glitter in them. There will be a theatre where drag queens put on shows every night. A different drag queen will perform every night so the drag queens don\u2019t get too tired. There will also be a kids fashion show every day. The kids can put on a show for their parents and guardians, if they want. But they don\u2019t have to; it\u2019s their choice. There will be plenty of restaurants to choose from. A place for hamburgers. A fancy restaurant that serves oysters. And an Italian place that serves pink sauce noodles, red sauce noodles and butter noodles. There will also be a place for steak and chicken. Dessert is macaroons stacked into a pyramid shape in a rainbow of colors. There will be ink on each macaroon that tells the eater a message like: \u201cYou are amazing!,\u201d \u201cDon\u2019t judge a book by its cover!\u201d and \u201cYou can do anything!\u201d The hotel rooms will all have coffee makers in them with sugar cubes \u2014 because sugar cubes are extra fancy. Everybody will get a pair of white slippers. The towels will be folded into animals, like elephants, and room service will leave a chocolate mint on your pillow every night before bed. There will be a big bathtub in every room with bath salts that smell like vanilla and bath bombs that smell like lemon. When a kid arrives, they will get to choose a free gay pride rainbow flag, a small tiny plush star pillow or a pink heart pillow. That will be their free gift. They can only pick one. Everyone will always get along. I want everybody to feel luxurious while they are at my hotel resort. I want them to feel like a prince, princess, king or queen. Whichever one they want to feel like, it\u2019s their choice. The people who work at my hotel resort will know everybody\u2019s name and pronouns and talk to each guest like they know who they are. When people leave my hotel they will feel so welcome in the world and they will get all of their confidence. They will believe that they can do anything. When they go back to the real world and someone is being mean to them, they will not care because they will just be remembering how they felt at my hotel resort. The only thing I don\u2019t know about my hotel resort is the name. I can\u2019t think of the perfect one. I need your help! Leave your idea for my hotel\u2019s name in the comments below. I will pick a winner on Saturday. The winner will win a tiny paper airplane, two tiny origami figures, a friendship bracelet and a note from me. Thanks for your ideas! Love, C.J. \u00a0 \u00a0   ", "feedtitle": "Page 3 \u2013 Raising My Rainbow"}