My Son Recaps the Start of RuPaul’s Drag Race Season 9
Mon, 10 Apr 2017 17:16:48 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2017/04/10/my-son-recaps-the-start-of-rupauls-drag-race-season-9/
All Posts Cynthia Lee Fontaine Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Jaymes Mansfield Kimora Blac Lady Gaga LGBTQ Logo Logo TV Nina Bo'Nina Brown parenting Peppermint RuPaul RuPaul's Drag Race Sasha Velour Valentina 
 This post was written by C.J. (age 10). If you aren’t caught up on Drag Race, it contains spoilers. All photo creds go to LogoTV.com.  This season’s first episode wasn’t as good as the first episode from other seasons. It took me a little while to get super in to this season. But, now I am. Bam. Jaymes Mansfield On the first episode I liked Jaymes Mansfield and Nina Bo’Nina Brown the best. Jaymes Mansfield because she came out with a puppet and Nina Bo’Nina Brown because her look was inspired by Mickey Mouse. But my favorite queen from the first episode was Lady Gaga. She wasn’t really a competitor, but she was still my favorite. I liked it when Lady Gaga said that drag offers an escape. I think drag is a great escape. Sometimes I use drag to escape boring real life. In this episode Valentina and Sasha Velour were my mom’s favorites. Sometimes we don’t have the same favorites and that’s okay. RuPaul said no one was going home during the episode and I was like “No one is going home? Then what’s the point of it?!” The best quote of the episode was when someone said “the entire point of drag is to give the middle finger to rules of gender.” I said that the next day to my mom before school. She laughed and said it was true but I shouldn’t talk about giving the middle finger. Especially at school. Nina Bo’Nina Brown I’m glad Nina Bo’Nina won the first episode. I think Mama Ru made the right choice. Then, at the end of the first episode they said some queen was coming back and showed the back of the queen’s head and I yelled “OMG! It’s Coco Montrese with her Dorito face!” Every episode I look for a wedding ring on RuPaul’s finger because my mom told me he got married! But I haven’t seen a wedding ring yet. Where is Ru’s husband?! RuPaul’s probably not wearing a ring for the show but he is probably definitely wearing it when he’s not on the show. I was not happy that Cynthia Lee Fontaine came back to the show on the second episode. I thought it wasn’t fair that she was back at first, but now I’m glad she’s back because she had to leave the first time because she had cancer and she deserves a second chance. Everybody deserves a second chance, especially if you had cancer. There is a wax statue of RuPaul in the workroom and I want it more than anything. I would put it in my room. I also want a wall of fabric in my room, like they have in the workroom. But, my mom says we just redid my room recently and we aren’t going to do it again anytime soon, but I feel like that was such a long time ago. Kimora Blac In the second episode I realized how whiny Kimora Blac is. I thought Peppermint was the best on the runway and she became one of my new overall favorites for a minute. Jaymes Mansfield had to sashay away and that was the right decision even though at the very first she was my favorite. Her personality wasn’t ready for Drag Race. She maybe should have waited a season or two. By the third episode (which is the most recent one you should watch), Valentina is my new official favorite. She is soooooooo good at eye makeup. In the episode Kimora said she didn’t know what an adjective is. By Kimora’s age you should know what an adjective is. By that age I’m going to know them in my sleep. Sasha Velour said “we need to be proudly visible queer.” I told my mom I liked the sound of that quote and she asked me why but I couldn’t explain it. I can’t always explain how quotes make me feel. On the runway Cynthia Lee Fontaine’s outfit looked a little like a kindergarten craft, no offense. I liked Farrah Moan’s seashell bra and lots of the queens had really great hair. Kimora was a no in my opinion. Nina Bo’Nina always does great at gluing a mask to her face. But I have to admit her look scared me a little. I’m just a kid! Valentina Valentina’s look was my favorite. She reminded me of a grown up drag Shirley Temple. Her eye makeup is always so good. So good. RuPaul made another good choice sending Kimora Blac home. When she gets home she should learn how to sew and not pay people to do it. And learn what adjectives are. I can’t wait to watch the rest of the season and see who wins. Right now I want Valentina or Nino Bo’Nina to win. Who do you want to win?       