Things I Never Thought I’d Say to My Son: Post-Halloween Edition
Fri, 18 Nov 2011 04:39:24 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/11/17/things-i-never-thought-id-say-to-my-son-post-halloween-edition/
All Posts 
   I’m telling you, Lady Gaga is NOT Selena Gomez’s mommy.  Come here, honey.  With your wig tied back like that you look like Paul Revere.  Let’s braid it. That’s why we don’t wear wigs at the dinner table; it’s getting in your food. Please be careful not to get holes in your tights. Hold still please, I need brush your hair a certain way before I put your wig on. Are you going to do the black lipstick?  No?   Good choice. I don’t know who Mr. Goodbar is.  Yes, he does make a good bar.  Last week I welcomed questions from you.  A few were posted in the comments section of that post and I’ll work on answering one or two every Thursday.  Don’t be shy, ask me anything.  If you want a little more privacy, you can email questions to raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com (a few people did that this week). Q.  “If science allowed, would a parent chose for their child to be heterosexual if they already knew for a fact that they would be homosexual?” – Jazmine A. No, I would not, if possible, use science to change my homosexual child into a heterosexual.  The thought that some people would consider doing so scares me, mostly for their child’s sake should s/he be a part of the LGBTQ community.  Pack the kid’s bags and send them to my house.  Q.  What about CJ’s creativity – does he often make up stories and the like? I imagine if he did they would be patently hilarious. – Evan A. C.J. is a creative soul.  You’re question really made me thing.   He is just starting to create stories, but will then pass them off as “dreams.”  His passion is for art.  He will draw detailed pictures with crayons, markers, paints or pencils and explain them to me at length, demanding my full attention.  He will also modify pictures in coloring books if the character’s outfit isn’t right or hair isn’t to his liking.  He can stay in the lines better than most kids his age, but isn’t afraid to go out of the lines if he feels it will improve the final result.    