Panties Above the Door
Fri, 28 Oct 2011 02:50:29 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/10/27/panties-above-the-door/
All Posts 
 My BFF came charging out of the bathroom at the internet café on the island of Mykonos where we were chatting up the kiddos via FaceTime. As the oldest child, C.J.’s Brother dutifully held the iPad back in Cali. When he wasn’t looking for boogers up his nose via the small screen in the upper right-hand corner he had the camera pointing towards the ceiling. So, we could see daily that our ceiling was in a state of good repair and our son was picking his nose with the utmost attention to detail. “You HAVE GOT to go to the bathroom!” she said to me with a giddy urgency. Naturally I hopped right up and headed to the tinkle-torium, not knowing what I was going to see. Blood, guts, gore, pubic hair, diamonds, Ryan Gosling? My bestie, she always keeps me guessing that way. I go through the door to the unisex shared sink area, which is the usual in Greece (and other parts of Europe, I suppose). I never got used to sharing a portion of the powder room. I constantly felt like I had entered the men’s room on accident and, at the same time, it reminded me of that one night at M.J.’s in Silverlake, sharing a bathroom with the mixed masses. I get to the side-by-side toilet doors (one for women and one for men) and this is what I see. A pair of Sylvester little boys underwear indicate the “Men’s Room” and Sleeping Beauty little girls underwear indicate the “Ladies’ Room.” C.J. would insist, of course, on making a number one and two with Aurora. I whipped out my iPhone to snap a pic for all of you and the man washing his hands at the sink stared at me and escaped the confined space quickly. I walked out smiling; thanking the Grecian stars that no establishment in Orange County would do such a thing. Little things like that give me pause when C.J. is with me, but make me smile at our quirky adventures when he isn’t around. People now associate me with children’s underwear (read this post to learn why). Is it weird to admit that I’m kind of flattered, because if it is I won’t admit it. * * * In the news this week: A little boy wants to join the Girl Scouts. My initial thought: Holy crap, I haven’t even considered that the scouting age is around the corner and C.J., most likely, will prefer the Girl Scout Friendship Circle to the Boy Scout Wolf Den. Great. My initial thought on the coverage: Good for the Girl Scouts for having a decent, coherent statement. I don’t, however, like that they use the term “transgender” when they should be saying “gender variant” or “gender nonconforming. Overall: The story may be a step forward for gender creative families. Jenna Lyons, the exec from J. Crew who caused “Toemaggeden,” has left her husband of nine years for, allegedly, a woman.   