Agoraphobic Homophobic Catholic Mom
Fri, 16 Sep 2011 03:44:57 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/09/15/agoraphobic-homophobic-catholic-mom/
All Posts Catholocism Disney Princess effeminate Gay Gender Stereotypes homosexual Ignite Social Media Orange County parenting Religion Stacy Trasancos 
 Dear Stacy Trasancos (author of the gross blog post titled “Can’t Even Go To The Park”), Like you, I am a mom.  Like you, I believe in God.  And, like you, sometimes I am afraid to leave the house because I fear who I might run into.  In particular, I’m afraid of running into people like you.   I’m afraid of the damage people like you could do to my sweet child, who has pink socks peaking out the top of his bedazzled sneakers and is, most often, carrying a Disney Princess in one hand and a purple handbag full of sass in the other.  And — get ready for this — sometimes we have Uncle Uncle and his boyfriend in tow.  Oh, girl, you better run home! We’re your worst nightmare; a brigade of gays and an effeminate boy who doesn’t fall neatly and “traditionally” on the gender spectrum.  Run, girl, run!  Back to your house!  Shut your door!  Pray! People like you cast looks of judgment that are fierce (and not in a good way).  You break people’s spirits in the name of the Lord, when really that is not at all what God was/is about.  God was/is about love and kindness, not fear and hatred.  Maybe he’s using this as a lesson for you, a way to soften your heart to your fellow human.  A way of telling you that real judgment is his, not yours, to own.  Maybe he’s telling you to move (but, not to Orange County, thanks). You becoming agoraphobic isn’t doing anything positive for your kids.  It’s making the world small and scary to them.  You may not be ready to have a talk with your kids about gender and sexuality, but it would be age-appropriate to show them, with words and actions, what it means to love others as you love yourself.   Words like yours aren’t helping the way society views your religion.  Spewing hatred, and using your religion to justify it, does not make you a good catholic or a good person. Honey, you aren’t holier than any of us.  You’re a sinner just like us; we’re all the same that way.  If one of your seven children ever comes out, send him/her to my house for a love you can’t give them.  They’ll have so much fun! We’ll even leave the house! Bless You, C.J.’s Mom * * * I’m super proud to be named one of Ignite Social Media’s “100 Women Bloggers You Should Be Reading.”  I can’t wait to check out all of the other bloggers on the list. (I know Stacy Trasancos didn’t make the list.)   