C.J.’s Fall 2011 Collection
Fri, 19 Aug 2011 04:19:51 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/08/18/c-j-s-fall-2011-collection/
All Posts Main Site Header Disney Disney Princess effeminate Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow The Princess and the Frog Tiana 
 The women in my family can sew. For generations they have made their own clothes, quilts, costumes, pillows, tissue box covers, curtains, prom dresses, you name it. The talent was also passed on to my brother, Uncle Uncle, who once even sewed a bra — using no pattern — and filled it with pounds of bird seed to simulate the heft and sag of real breasts. Yes, my brother has mad sewing skills and heaving breasts, and I have neither. I have never been so thankful for Uncle Uncle’s way with a sewing machine until he arrived at our house in the nick of time this weekend. Nana Grab Bags had just bought C.J. this washcloth. During the course of bathing with it he was struck by inspiration. He wanted it on a shirt. “You mean you want a Tiana shirt?,” I asked. “No, I want this Tiana on a shirt,” he replied, like he was speaking to a complete imbecile. “You want that washcloth on a shirt?” “Yeeeeaaaaaaahhh,” he said as his head weaved from left to right and right to left with massive amounts of attitude. “I don’t know if we have a shirt….” “I know which one!,” he dashed off and returned with this shirt of his father’s, which C.J. says is “soft and wiggly,” but not “nice.” I got my sewing machine out and stalled. And stalled. And stalled. And, then, Uncle Uncle arrived. After a serious talk about C.J.’s design concept and a purple marker was used for added allure, the first piece of C.J.’s Fall 2011 collection was complete. Thank you Uncle Uncle for understanding and supporting C.J. when the rest of us are a little slow. * * * In Monday’s post (Which Way to Pre-K?) I asked if you thought that I should explain to C.J.’s new Pre-K teacher that he is gender nonconforming or let her figure it out on her. Pretty much everybody thought that I should give her a heads up. That’s what my gut was telling me, too. I’ll have to let you know how that goes. Thanks for all of your comments and e-mails!   