They Like Me…They Really, Really Like Me
Fri, 15 Jul 2011 04:29:48 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/07/14/they-like-me-they-really-really-like-me/
All Posts 2011 Voices of the Year BlogHer Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Spectrum Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting PFLAG raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow 
 Thanks to all of you who reached out to me after my last – rather emotional – post.  Every comment and e-mail of support means tons to my husband and me. I wish all of you lived on our street; we could have some pretty crazy block parties. A lot of you suggested ways to connect with other families like ours. Three cheers for PFLAG! I do attend meetings locally, when I can get a babysitter. I walk away from every meeting feeling so hopeful.    Another popular suggestion was the annual Gender Spectrum Conference.  And, wouldn’t you know, they reached out to me as well. I can’t attend this year’s conference, but I’m looking forward to attending next year.  Here’s more info for those of you who don’t already have big, glamorous plans for July 29 through August 1. A little birdy told me that scholarships are still available. You should look into that. That same birdy should be advised that I’ll need a scholarship next year. Thanks-sies! CALLING ALL GENDER NON-CONFORMING YOUTH AND THEIR FAMILIES! The 2011 Gender Spectrum Family Conference in Berkeley, July 29-August 1, will bring together youth, families and professionals for a weekend of support, learning and celebration of transgender and gender creative young people. The weekend is a transformative experience for all involved. We’ll have more than 30 workshops for adults, Kids Camp for ages 5-8, a brand new Tween Program for children ages 9-11, and our fabulous Teen Program. REGISTER NOW for The 2011 Family Conference or The 2011 Professionals’ Workshop. For more info visit: www.genderspectrum.org, or contact us at info@genderspectrum.org, (510) 567-3977. One more thing….Little old me has been named one of 2011’s Voices of the Year by BlogHer, the leading participatory news, entertainment and information network for women online.  In particular, I’ve been recognized for my post titled “I See the Rainbow, Not the Muddle.”  Which also answers the question that many new readers have: “Have you considered that C.J. is not gay, but transgender?”    