C.J. Enters the Footwear Industry
Fri, 01 Jul 2011 05:20:31 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/06/30/c-j-enters-the-footwear-industry/
All Posts effeminate Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Ikea Nordstrom Rack Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Skechers 
 I love Nordstrom Rack, though I rarely have the patience for it. If you’ve shopped there with children, you understand.  If you haven’t shopped at Nordstrom Rack with kids, I equate it to shopping at IKEA with only 20 minutes to find the perfect item, write down the sku number, find your way to a check stand and place your order. All while being followed by a bum asking you for spare change every two and a half minutes.  And, the bum steps on your foot and knocks something over and you are responsible for picking that something up.  Hurry the clock is ticking. Anyway, C.J. and I were at Nordstrom Rack when he eyed these shoes and said that he HAD to have them. The internal debate that these shoes caused is ridiculous. They are “girl” shoes, yes.  Would anybody at his school tease him? Probably not. Would they make his brother feel uncomfortable? Yes, really uncomfortable because, at age 8, he is more aware of and susceptible to teasing. How would C.J.’s Dad feel about the shoes? How would the grandparents feel? Could I get them and restrict them to only the house?  Is that a waste of $20? If my little girl wanted “boys” shoes would I let her get them without as much thought? C.J. was still looking at me, waiting for my answer. “I have an idea!  Why don’t we make our own sparkle shoes?!“ “Yeah!” C.J. said, much to my relief. Here’s the finished product. He picked out the plain black Chucks and I got the rhinestones at the craft store.  The next day after school we spent some quality time getting crafty and viola!  Crisis averted. C.J. now has his very own sparkle shoes , which are way cooler than Skechers any day. The compliments are never-ending and he is so proud to tell people that he made them himself. And, a compliment came my way recently. A mom wrote me the following e-mail and it made me proud; proving again that what I’m doing here is worth the trouble. I love my readers. Thanks for being a part of our adventures. “Hello CJ’s mum I think you are wonderful. Because of you l have truly opened my heart up to my four year old boy. Embraced his love of Barbie dolls & pretty dresses. And he is so thrilled in his love of all things girl, you can often hear him say. I don’t care. I like dolls. Which swells my heart. Your blog has changed my (our) life.”   