What If He Never Has To Step Foot In The Closet
Fri, 03 Jun 2011 04:41:36 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/06/02/what-if-he-never-has-to-step-foot-in-the-closet/
All Posts Eric Carle Gay Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Gender variant homosexual Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Very Hungry Caterpillar 
 It’s the time of the year again.  Yes, Open House season is upon us.  Time to head to your child’s school to see things made of construction paper, stand in line to talk to his/her teacher and fake-smile at other parents.  Come on kids, it’s time to look like a normal family! At C.J.’s Open House the walls were covered in colorful masterpieces.  One lesson was based on The Very Hungry Caterpillar by Eric Carle and the accompanying craft was a construction paper caterpillar made of circles in a color-specific pattern.  Here’s what the “perfect” caterpillar looked like.  And, here’s what C.J.’s caterpillar looked like.  He said he got “fus-ter-rated” because he wanted to make the caterpillar a girl AND a boy, but he was supposed to be going in a pattern.  He also decided to ditch the antennae in favor of long hair.  C.J.’s caterpillar was hard to miss. I’m about to go way off topic, so stay with me.  There’s something I’ve been wondering for several weeks now.  Do you think that it is possible for a homosexual person to not have to come out of the closet.  I don’t mean stay closeted for always and ever.  I mean never even enter the closet.  For instance, I’ve asked my oldest son if he thinks anybody in his class is cute.  I’m careful how I phrase it.  I don’t ask if he thinks any of the girls are cute.  I leave it open so that he can answer honestly.  Do you think an LGBT youth could grow up and never step foot in the closet (at least with immediate family), thus making the coming out process (with the immediate family) obsolete?  Can a family be so okay with homosexuality that, say, a fifth grade boy could tell his mom very comfortably that the boy in class in a Chargers jersey and still outgrowing his baby fat (or Baby Phat, who knows) is totes amazeballs? Please let me know what you think.  I’ve asked around and gotten very surprising answers.   