Two Cents, a Giveaway and Some Housekeeping
Fri, 27 May 2011 03:18:09 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/05/26/two-cents-a-giveaway-and-some-housekeeping/
All Posts effeminate Gay Gay pride gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow 
 We’ve all read this story recently right? http://news.yahoo.com/s/yblog_thelookout/20110524/ts_yblog_thelookout/parents-keep-childs-gender-under-wraps Here are my two cents… One cent:     The headline reads “Parents Keep Baby’s Gender Under Wraps,” when it should read “Parents Keep Baby’s Sex Under Wraps…And Let it Declare its Own Gender.” Two cent:     I wouldn’t make the parenting decision that they have made. But, then again, a lot of people don’t agree with my parenting decisions (e.g. this here blog you are reading). What are your thoughts? Now for the winner of the first-ever Raising My Rainbow giveaway!  I instructed those who wanted to be entered to leave a comment at the end of last Thursday’s post.  I received 44 comments.  I wrote numbers one through 44 on a sheet of paper and had C.J. circle the number he liked best.   He circled the number five first (then 22 through 24, 28 and 29).  So congrats to the following commenter, I must say, by his comment, he is VERY deserving! Greg (may 21,2001 at 6:43 p.m.) says: If I get picked I will donate the book to the high school Library where I am a teacher. we had an incident this week where a closeted student was harassing another student about being gay. I think this book will help both of them.  Hey, are you all aware that Queerty.com is back online and Raising My Rainbow is back on Queerty?  Spread the word and check out the new Queerty. Have you found me on “The Facebook,” as C.J.’s Dad likes to call it?  Facebook.com/RaisingMyRainbow.  I’m on the Tweet Machine too (/RaisingRainbow), but I Facebook more. Additional tidbits on raising C.J. offered there, like when he put lip gloss in his hair and readers helped me find a solution to get it out.  BTW, acetone and rubbing alcohol good, dry shampoo bad. Are you reading my posts regularly?  You should subscribe.  Do it at RaisingMyRainbow.com in the upper, right-hand corner.  That would make you super cool and one of C.J.’s total besties. Finally, what country are you reading from?  If it’s not on this list let me know by posting a comment or sending me an e-mail or inviting me and my family for all-expense paid vacation to visit you and log the country personally.  Argentina Australia Bahrain Brazil Canada Chile Costa Rica Denmark France Germany Greece Ireland Norway Pakistan Scotland Spain Trinidad and Tobago United States United Kingdom    