Please Don’t Insult My Son By Giving Him a Ken Doll
Tue, 26 Apr 2011 05:12:39 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/04/25/please-don%e2%80%99t-insult-my-son-by-giving-him-a-ken-doll/
All Posts Main Site Header Barbie Disney Princess effeminate Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Ken doll Mattel Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow 
 Nana Grab Bags really screwed up this time.  And, C.J. has to remind her at regular intervals so that she doesn’t forget her mistake. Yesterday afternoon she arrived at our house with two Easter baskets overflowing with ridiculousness, one for C.J. and one for his brother.  C.J.’s basket had more chocolate than the city of Hershey, Penn.; colored bubbles that, I’ve been warned, stain; a Little Mermaid kite; toys for summer; and a Ken doll.  How could she. Handsome Ken doll comes casually dressed in jeans, pink plaid shirt and a grey tee. When C.J. caught a glimpse of the familiarly-shaped pink box buried in the basket, he got excited.  His excitement was premature.  He pulled the box out and his smile quickly turned into a hard straight line.  “Nana, what is ‘dis?” he asked with attitude and his head cocked, knowing full well what “it” was. “That’s Ken,” said Nana, exuberant as always. “I don’t like Ken. I like Barbie,” C.J. insisted. Poor Nana Grab Bags.  She tried.  She tried to see if C.J. could like a Ken doll as much as he likes Barbie.  If maybe Ken could be a gateway drug into the dirty world of boy toys, much like Barbie was a gateway drug into the fabulous world of girl toys.  Not that Nana Grab Bags really cares.  Well, C.J. was offended. C.J. continued to look at Ken with confusion and disgust.  I would have the same reaction if someone gave me an auto part, chess set or computer manual.  I encouraged C.J. to be thankful, but he was so flabbergasted by the gift choice that he couldn’t play nice.  Kids are so lucky that they don’t have to pretend.  According to C.J., the gift sucked and he couldn’t help but let Nana know it. It wasn’t just any Ken doll.  It was Shaving Fun Ken.  “Girls can help Ken doll "shave" his facial hair!” -- Mattel To add insult to injury, Nana Grab Bags bought Shaving Fun Ken two additional outfits; a pink tuxedo and an outfit for the beach.  “I thought you would have fun changing his clothes,” she explained.  C.J. said nothing; he just shook his head no.  C.J. loves to dress his Barbies and Disney Princesses, how could he refuse to dress and undress Ken? We all tried to stifle our laughter and smiles.  It really was cute.  C.J.’s attitude is cute on a four-year-old.  If you’re older than four, don’t try this at home, unless you’re with your Nana.  A good Nana will forgive just about anything, especially on Easter.   