Week From Hell: Featuring Armless Children, Pink Toenails and The End of Queerty
Tue, 19 Apr 2011 02:40:19 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/04/18/week-from-hell-featuring-armless-children-pink-toenails-and-the-end-of-queerty/
All Posts Main Site Header Dr. Keith Albow effeminate Fox Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual j. Crew Jenna Lyons Orange County parenting Pink Toenails Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow 
 Since my last post, I had a bad day, for seven days in a row.  It all started when I realized that I’m expected to work on April 29, the day that I really need to be at home in front of the television watching the wedding of His Royal Hotness Prince William of Wales and Waity Katy Catherine Middleton.  I should have taken it as a sign from the monarchy that this week would suck royally. Last Monday’s post summarizing the results of a survey that I conducted about raising homosexual and/or transgender children got people to think and question.  A few of the results keep popping into my head.  Seven percent of people would rather their child be missing his/her left arm than love someone of the same sex.  Wow.  I keep thinking it, seven out of 100.  Seven armless children. If people had to choose to raise a straight tomboy girl or straight effeminate boy, they chose to raise the girl.  Not one person elected to raise a straight effeminate boy.  I caught myself looking at C.J. several times this week and thinking, “Nobody would choose to raise you.”  I’d lift my chin up and think, “Well I’m honored and proud to raise you.  I’d choose you.”  I want to look into his four-year-old hazel eyes and make him understand that I would choose him, even if nobody else would.  Now, Dr. Ablow didnt approve of Becketts pink toenails, but are C.J.s toe rings okay? Then, along came toemagadden; which, of course, all started when J. Crew ran an ad featuring its president and creative director Jenna Lyons and her five-year-old son Beckett.  His neon pink toenails made a lot of people see red and made me feel blue. In his Fox News blog, self-proclaimed super-smarty-pants Dr. Keith Ablow made it clear that he doesn’t approve of Ms. Lyons and all of us moms who are set on not changing our kids, but celebrating them, loving them and raising them to be exactly who they were created to be.  When it comes to parenting, according to Dr. Smartypants, we’re doing it all wrong.  It’s the gay men and transgendered (and even the lesbians, bless you girls!) who tell me that I’m doing what they wish their parents would have done for them as children.  It’s all the people who grew up “different” that tell me that raising my “different” child the “same” as everybody else just isn’t going to do.  Shame on Dr. Smartypants for making a mother feel small for making her child feel big. Dr. Smartypants As “America’s Psychiatrist” he would serve a greater purpose by making an informed diagnosis and offering helpful treatment.  The social commentary he offered in his Fox blog failed to do that.  It was rude, judgmental and sarcastic; three things a psychiatrist has no business being while on the clock. Be an ass in your free time, please. I found it interesting that, in his blog post, he writes negatively of Facebook.  For shits and giggles I looked him up on the F-B.  The good doc has 3,127 friends!  Goes show that my theory is right, never trust an adult with more than 500 Facebook friends; get a fan page. The final blow of the week?  Queerty.com, the leading website for LGBT news, ceased operating this week.  Queerty.com and David Hauslib have been so good to me and RaisingMyRainbow.com.  They syndicated almost all of my posts, helped me find a larger audience and answered silly question after silly question when I was three mojitos deep at The Abby.  Cheers to David and whatever fabulous adventure he conquers next.  Cheers, Queerty. Thanks for everything. Who wants to syndicate my content now?   