C.J. Peeks Out From Behind the Orange Curtain
Fri, 04 Mar 2011 04:27:26 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/03/03/c-j-peeks-out-from-behind-the-orange-curtain/
All Posts Cindy Yamanaka effeminate Fabulous Gay Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual My Princess Boy Orange County Orange County Register parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Theresa Walker 
 With the lull in between C.J.’s baseball and gymnastics careers, I thought it was going to be a slow week.  Then, Raising My Rainbow was on the front page of The Orange County Register’s Sunday edition.  Read the article here.  Bonus feature: C.J.’s Dad speaks for the first time about raising C.J.  As part of the spread, Walker scored an exclusive interview with Cheryl Kilodavis, author of My Princess Boy.  Check it out. The feedback from readers has been overwhelming: negative, positive, judgmental, encouraging  and, most of all, tear-jerking.  We heard from a lot of Orange County families who feel like they have to hide with their effeminate, gay and/or non-gender conforming son; when really we all want to walk in the sun.  My family is not alone, I always knew that. Shout out here to Cindy Yamanaka and Theresa Walker, The Orange County Register Reporter Theresa Walker and photographer Cindy Yamanaka were super supportive of the blog, kind to our family and treated us with great care.  To them I am thankful. Any-who, since the story hit newsstands, I have made good on my promise not to peek at the comments left by readers on the publication’s website.  My BFF (a.k.a. Auntie KK) says that Register readers are proving to be even more close-minded and judgmental than she expected; which is a shock to me, because after 13 years as my partner in crime, she is pretty good at, both, expecting the worst of people and then not giving two shits about what they think. Our journey sure is unique, thanks for joining us. C.J.'s Infamous Lego Mini-Fig    Oh, Child! C.J.’s Mom needs a manicure!         