C.J.’s Mom and Feast of Fun
Thu, 24 Feb 2011 22:29:54 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/02/24/c-j-s-mom-and-feast-of-fun/
All Posts effeminate Fabulous Feast of Fun Gay Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow 
 This week I had the pleasure of chatting it up with the boys at Feast of Fun. What is Feast of Fun?   A daily podcast talk show hosted by Fausto Fernós and Marc Felion featuring celebrity guests and friends of the LGBT community. With more than 12 million downloads to date, Feast of Fun has the distinction of having the largest audience for a LGBT-themed podcast in the world. It’s one of the most popular daily audio programs of its kind for any audience.  Here’s a brief description of what we talked about on the show: “Pink boys, princess boys, rainbow kids and the little guy who wanted to dress up as Daphne from Scooby Doo: there is an explosion of moms coming forward to say it’s OK to let your kids play with the toys they want or even make believe and dress up like a fairy princess. These moms don’t care if their kids are gay, transgendered or just going through a phase, they just want them to grow up in a loving accepting society. So they are blogging about it, and want your support. Today we’re talking to C.J.’s mom who writes the blog, Raising my Rainbow where she anonymously shares her story about raising her 4 year old son C.J. who love princesses, Barbie dolls, Alice in Wonderland and pretending he’s celebrity home style cook Paula Deen. Listen as C.J.’s mom shares with us the messages she’s gotten from thousands of people from all around the world for being a mom who supports her kids to be whoever they want to be.” Listen to the podcast here: http://www.feastoffun.com/podcast/2011/02/24/fof-1334-i-think-my-4-year-old-son-is-gay-02-24-11/ Thanks to Fausto, Marc, Feast of Fun and their listeners for the love and support. Who else can I thank this week? Readers from Brazil, Costa Rica, France, Germany, Norway and Pakistan who have hopped on the rainbow to follow our adventures.   