Prince Charming E-mailed My Son
Fri, 18 Feb 2011 05:37:08 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/02/17/prince-charming-e-mailed-my-son/
All Posts Disney Disney Princess Disneyland dosmanzanas.com effeminate Fabulous Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Prince Charming Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow 
 C.J. has received an e-mail from Prince Charming.  Yes, THE Prince Charming.  They had been going back and forth (with me, C.J.’s Mom, playing the part of loyal typist and secretary) since just before our big birthday trip to Disneyland. For C.J.’s birthday, Prince Charming sent him this autographed picture…  C.J. saw it pop up on the computer screen as I did. “Who dat fo’!” he yelled, as if I wasn’t sitting with my ear six inches from his perfect little mouth. “It’s for you.  Prince Charming sent it via e-mail from his castle,” I answered, my voice overflowing with splendor and awe. “Give it to me!” he said as he reached across me in a mad attempt to rip it from the screen. I printed it out on a piece of photo paper and C.J. twirled with it, held it up high, twirled again and hugged it close to his chest.  Then it was nap time.  And, he took Prince Charming.  Then it was dinner time.  And, he took Prince Charming.  Then it was time to jump on the trampoline.  And, he took Prince Charming.  Then it was bath time.  And, we fought over taking Prince Charming in the tub as I tried to explain why photos and water don’t mix. Then, it was bedtime.  And, he took Prince Charming. Two weeks later and he still loves his autographed Prince Charming photo (even though the neighbor boys weren’t as impressed with it as he was). It’s one of his most prized possessions and it was a very thoughtful gesture from our new friend Mitch.  C.J. and I are thankful for all of the people who follow our adventures, especially the nice ones. * * * This week Raising My Rainbow welcomed readers from Spain!  Hola!  Thank you to dosmanzanas.com!  Raising My Rainbow has now made it to Canada, the U.K., Australia, New Zealand and Spain.   