The Boy Who Cried Fabulous
Thu, 27 Jan 2011 22:02:12 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2011/01/27/the-boy-who-cried-fabulous/
All Posts effeminate Fabulous Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Leslea Newman My Princess Boy parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow The Boy Who Cried Fabulous 
 When Uncle Uncle comes to visit he always arrives bearing gifts; beautifully wrapped gifts, because – after all — merchandising and appearance are everything. One of the favorites, by far, is the book The Boy Who Cried Fabulous written by Leslea Newman and illustrated by Peter Ferguson. C.J. is...The Boy Who Cried Fabulous. Yes, I have read My Princess Boy by Cheryl Kilodavis.  I applaud her. But, C.J. identifies more with The Boy Who Cried Fabulous.  I think it has something to do with redheads sticking together; hence his affinity for Ariel (The Little Mermaid) and Strawberry Shortcake.  I digress. The Boy Who Cried Fabulous is, in a word, fabulous. It’s about Roger… “Roger is ‘different’ much to his parents’ dismay, until he teaches them just how fabulous being different can be!” Leslea Newman explains why she wrote the book…. “I have a very good friend named Roger, whose favorite word is “fabulous.” One day Roger told me a friend of his gave him a nickname: the boy who cried fabulous. Roger said, “Wouldn’t that be a great title for a children’s book?” I agreed and went to work!” Excerpt – The Boy Who Cried Fabulous “When Roger started out for school, His mother set a simple rule. She said, ‘Now Roger, you go straight Straight to class and don’t be late.’ Roger tried hard to obey, He knew that he should not delay. He shouldn’t wander or explore But then he came upon a store, Its windows full of lovely clothes So colorful that Roger froze, Then clapped his hands in fits of glee And shouted out in ecstasy: “What a fabulous coat, is it silk or wool? What a fabulous bell, can I give it a pull? What a fabulous door, does it open wide? What a fabulous store, can I come inside?” © 2003 Lesléa Newman People often as me what C.J. looks like. He pretty much looks like a younger version of this. Handsome, no?  Other books by Leslea Newman that you might want to give a read…. Mommy, Mama, and Me and Daddy, Papa, and Me are the first board books ever published for kids who live in two-mom and two-dad families. A Fire Engine for Ruthie about a little girl who wants to play with fire engines and trains and motorcycles. Too Far Away to Touch about a child and her special uncle who is lots of fun, even when living with AIDS means he’s not feeling his best. Felicia’s Favorite Story about a little girl who loves to hear the story of her adoption told by her two mothers. Heather Has Two Mommies about a little girl with two mommies who learns that families come in all shapes and sizes. Donovan’s Big Day about a little boy on the day that his two moms are getting married. What other books should I be reading to C.J.?  I want your suggestions!  Funny thing is, I'm wearing the same exact hat as the mom in this picture...right now....as I type. Weird!    