{"title": "Giveaway: My Son Wears Heels", "date": "Tue, 06 Sep 2016 22:33:23 +0000", "link": "https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2016/09/06/giveaway-my-son-wears-heels/", "tags": ["All Posts", "Giveaway", "Julie Tarney", "My Son Wears Heels", "parenting"], "text": " Happy Pub Day to Julie Tarney! Her book My Son Wears Heels came out today. And, I have a copy to give away to one lucky reader. This giveaway is now closed. Congrats to the winner, Shannon Twisler! About the book: In 1992, Julie Tarney\u2019s only child, Harry, told her, \u201cInside my head I\u2019m a girl.\u201d He was two years old. She had no idea what that meant. She felt disoriented even trying to process it. Wasn\u2019t it her role to encourage and support her child? But surely she had to set some limits to his self-expression\u2014or did she? Would he be bullied? What kind of guidance would he need? Could she do the right thing? And what was the right thing? The internet was no help, because there was no internet. And there were zero books for a mom scrambling to understand a toddler who had definite ideas about his gender, regardless of how Nature had endowed him. Terms such as transgender,gender nonconforming, and gender creative were rare or nonexistent. Lacking a positive role model of her own, and fearful of being judged as a mom who was making her son \u201ctoo feminine,\u201d Julie embarked on an unexpected parenting path. Despite some stumbles, she learned to rely on her instincts. She listened carefully, kept an open mind, and as long as Harry was happy, she let him lead the way. Julie eventually recognized that Harry knew who he was all along. Her job was simply to love him unconditionally, get out of the way, and let him be his authentic self. In the process she was able to embrace both his uniqueness and her own. As Harry turned 21, she looked back on the early years realizing that today she might have done a few things differently. Sound like something you\u2019d like to read? Leave a comment below and a winner will be randomly selected and announced on Thursday. To order a copy, click here. This giveaway is now closed. Congrats to the winner, Shannon Twisler!   ", "feedtitle": "Page 5 \u2013 Raising My Rainbow"}