{"title": "Pediatricians should not be transgender children\u2019s first bully", "date": "Wed, 10 Aug 2016 01:58:59 +0000", "dateobj": "2016-08-10", "link": "https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2016/08/09/pediatricians-should-not-be-transgender-childrens-first-bully/", "tags": ["All Posts", "AAP", "American Academy of Pediatrics", "Appearances", "Gender", "gender creative", "gender nonconforming", "Gender Stereotypes", "LGBTQ", "parenting", "transgender"], "text": " C.J. and Chase recently made their professional speaking debut in Washington, D.C., at an annual meeting for the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP). AAP invited us and another family to speak to meeting attendees about caring for gender nonconforming and transgender youth. When asked what he specifically wanted pediatricians to keep in mind when working with differently gendered kids, C.J.\u2019s answer was something they don\u2019t teach in medical school: Offer all stickers to all kids, not just boy stickers for boys and girls stickers for girls. AAP President Dr. Benard P. Dreyer was in the audience and published the following letter in response to our panel. I plan on sharing it with our pediatrician and thought you might want to do the same. Letter from the President: Pediatricians should not be transgender children\u2019s first bully By: Benard P. Dreyer, M.D., FAAP, President, American Academy of Pediatrics Dr. Dreyer As I sat at the AAP Districts II and VIII joint meeting in late June listening to two families talk about their experiences with their young transgender children, I felt privileged to witness such love and acceptance \u2014 and such normal, happy children who just happened not to fit their \u201cassigned\u201d or birth gender. I was proud to be an AAP member and a pediatrician, just as I was proud in April, when the North Carolina Chapter and national AAP called for repeal of North Carolina\u2019s so-called \u201cbathroom bill,\u201d a law that denies transgender students access to gender-segregated spaces such as restrooms and locker rooms in schools. I\u2019ve learned so much from these children and their families. First, gender dysphoria can start very early. Both children experienced strong opinions about their gender at the age of 4 or 5. Second, there is a continuum in gender dysphoria. Both children had natal male genders. Yet one child changed her name to reflect a female gender and insisted she was a girl, while the other child wanted to be addressed with male pronouns in spite of a preference to dress like a girl and choose play and roles traditionally engaged in by girls. Both families stressed how important it is for home to be a safe and accepting space for the transgender child. When those children walk through the door of their homes at the end of a school day, they should be able to be themselves without any judgment. As one of the fathers passionately said, \u201cI won\u2019t be my child\u2019s first bully!\u201d The pediatrician\u2019s office, and the entire health care setting, should be a safe, accepting place as well. I was sad to receive an email from one of the parents telling of another family\u2019s encounters with the health care system when they bring their 5-year-old transgender daughter in for care for her serious chronic disease. The doctors refuse to treat her as a girl until she is older, and some have even called child protective services claiming the mother is harming her child for allowing her to live as a girl. This is done even though a study by Olson and colleagues, published in Pediatrics in March, showed socially transitioned transgender children who are supported in their gender identity have improved mental health outcomes (Olson KR, Pediatrics. 2016;137:e20153223, http://bit.ly/29jaKIK). There appears to be no harm \u2014 and possible benefit \u2014 from such parent-supported early social transitions. The parents asked the AAP to get the word out to our members about our support for transgender children and their families. I will paraphrase the statement made by one of the fathers and suggest we pledge that as physicians, especially pediatricians, we not be our patients\u2019 first bully. It\u2019s been 44 years since the release of \u201cFree to Be \u2026You and Me\u201d by Marlo Thomas and Friends. When it was first published, my daughter was 5 years old, and I must have listened to every lyric in the book enough times to memorize them all. My beloved wife, Constance, made sure we had every version of the text (book, record album and video). After all, the point was to empower girls to believe they could do anything, empower boys to think outside the narrow constraints of male stereotypes and empower all children to be unique individuals. It had a major impact on my daughter who quotes it to this day. Now I\u2019m a grandfather with two granddaughters, so I\u2019ve been listening to the lyrics once more. This time, however, I\u2019ve been thinking especially of transgender children and how the words so resonate with their world. I will end this column by speaking directly to transgender children and youth with a quote from the book: I would like \u201cto remind you that you\u2019re the hero of your own life adventure and that you can write your story any way that you dream it can be.\u201d You are free to be whomever you want to be! Copyright \u00a9 2016 American Academy of Pediatrics   ", "feedtitle": "Page 5 \u2013 Raising My Rainbow"}