C.J.’s Favorite Things: 3rd Grade Edition (GIVEAWAY!)
Mon, 14 Sep 2015 20:13:07 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2015/09/14/c-j-s-favorite-things-3rd-grade-edition-giveaway/
All Posts Back to School Dork Diaries Fixer Upper gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Giveaway HGTV Juicy Couture Kohl's LGBTQ Pink Truck Designs Volcom 
 C.J. is officially a third grader. So far he does not like third grade as much as second grade because they don’t do as many crafts and when they do crafts “they are boring-er crafts.” He also misses his second grade teacher Mrs. D. On the upside, he has made a new friend named Ellie who likes C.J. because his hair “reminds her of fried chicken.” So there’s that. Here are the other things that C.J. has been digging lately. Juicy Boots – When he feels like the day or event calls for something a little flashier than his standard TOMS, C.J. busts out his new Juicy Couture Boots and compliments abound much to his delight. The boots feature purple velvety, quilted hearts and glitter laces. I wish they were available in my size. We found these gems at Kohl’s. Dork Diaries – A reluctant reader, C.J. has found something that he enjoys reading more than People and Us. I don’t want to jinx anything, but The Dork Diary Series by Rachel Renée Russell may just be making a reader out of my son — and he’s proud to report that so far this school year none of his peers have teased him for reading “a girl’s book.” Other reads he’s enjoyed? The Lotus Lane series and Smile, Sisters and Drama by Raina Telgemeier. Screaming Lady Backpack – I found this at Nordstrom Rack (Nordstrom Rack is one of my favorite things) and it just screamed C.J. See what I did there? It is made by Volcom, but C.J. calls it his “Screaming Lady Backpack” and thinks it’s “scary hilarious.” HGTV – C.J. has officially ditched the Food Network for HGTV. Turn on Disney Channel or Nickelodeon and he’ll complain; turn on HGTV and he’ll sit down to give you his opinions. He prefers any show featuring a tiny house and also House Hunters, Flip or Flop and Fixer Upper. Fixer Upper is my favorite; I want to go on a double date with Joanna and Chip right after they give my house a makeover. Pink Truck Designs – C.J.’s favorite shirt of the moment is by Pink Truck Designs and features a police cruiser just like his dad drives, only in pink (C.J.’s favorite color). C.J. says if he were a police officer he would want a pink cruiser (but he doesn’t want to be a police officer because he wants to be an artist, he wants you to know). Pink Truck Designs is a clothing line for all ages created by a mom whose daughters love bulldozers and snowplows. Their designs are inspired by the notion that it’s not just a boy thing or a girl thing — it’s a kid thing! GIVEAWAY – Pink Truck Designs has been gracious enough to gift one t-shirt to a lucky reader of mine. To enter, visit their website and decide what t-shirt you want. Leave the product name and size in the comments below. A winner will be announced at some point on Friday (9/18/15), so be sure to enter by midnight on Thursday (9/17/15). Good luck! The winner has been announced! It is none other than Thomas, a third grader from Orlando who sounds very much like C.J. (See his comment below.) Thanks to all who entered and to Pink Truck Designs for the awesome shirts!   