Friday Fodder: Raising Rainbows Scholarship
Fri, 03 Jul 2015 18:10:18 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2015/07/03/friday-fodder-raising-rainbows-scholarship/
All Posts John Oliver MTV Raising Rainbows Scholarship The Center School True Life 
 During my travels around the nation speaking to different groups and organizations, I fell in love with a school in Greenfield, Massachusetts. The Center School is a progressive, independent day school that offers rigorous education for deep thinkers and creative spirits. Seriously, everything about the school and its community of faculty, staff, students and parents have me enraptured and wishing that C.J. could go to The Center School or a school like it. The school has become a safe haven for gender creative kiddos. As of next year, the school will have four transgender and two gender non-conforming students and a gender creative staff member. How cool is that? Even cooler? They just launched a Raising Rainbows Scholarship in my honor.  The Center School’s Raising Rainbows scholarship, established in 2015, provides tuition support for Center School students who are transgender, gender nonconforming, gender creative, or who have family members who are.   The scholarship was inspired by a beautiful, brave Center School transgender student who transitioned when she was in kindergarten. In addition the initiators of this fund recognize the wonderful Lori Duron and the loving story of her gender creative son, as added inspiration.   Contributions to this fund are fully tax deductible and support students’ academic and social journey at The Center School, which celebrates each child’s unique path in the world. Consider giving and spreading the word. * * *  This John Oliver video is by far my favorite thing on the interwebs this week. It’s well-worth 15 minutes of your time — or even a few minutes because he pretty much nails it from start to finish. (Thanks to Leslie for tipping me off to this one.) “Some transgender people do undergo hormone therapy or sexual reassignment surgery as part of their transition; some do not. And interestingly, their decision on this matter is, medically speaking, none of your f*cking business,” John Oliver said on HBO’s Last Week Tonight, in re media questioning of transgender interview guests’ body parts. Singled out for shaming: Barbara Walters, Wendy Williams, Katie Couric, Larry King, etc. Oliver’s note to media: “If you’re still wondering, ‘What do I call a transgender person, it’s so confusing,’ actually it’s pretty simple – call them whatever they want to be called.”  * * *  MTV’s True Life series is currently casting for its next season. One episode is titled “I Am GenderQueer” and one is titled “I Have A Transgender Parent.” If either of these topics relate to your life or you know someone who would be perfect for the casting. Please email truelife@punchedinthehead.com.  * * *  Grief is a real bitch. Thanks for the comments, notes, thoughts and prayers as we adjust to life without Nana Grab Bags. Every days sucks a little less. xoxo, Lori   