C.J. Is Banana Man
Thu, 23 Apr 2015 19:14:42 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2015/04/23/c-j-is-banana-man/
All Posts Banana Man Brothers Chase gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes invisible friend Orange County parenting 
 I’m lucky to have two kids who love each other, mostly get along, play well together and sometimes hold hands when no one is looking. Lately, their favorite way to pass time is to jump on our trampoline together. Even though C.J. would prefer to take turns performing mini choreographed gymnastics routines for each other, Chase more often than not convinces him to play “superheroes.” I’m not sure what all the game entails, but I do know that they each pick a superhero to portray. Chase is always Captain America and, because he is unfamiliar with mainstream superheroes, C.J. has made up his own. C.J. is Banana Man. Me: What are Banana Man’s superpowers? C.J.: I can shoot bubblegums out of my mouth. And if I touch stuff my sticker power is activated and whatever I touch gets covered with stickers. And I can turn things rainbow colored. And I can have a Super Jump. Me: What’s a Super Jump? C.J.: I jump really high and when I land on the ground people fall like they can’t walk in high heels. Me: What outfit does Banana Man wear? C.J.: It changes every day. But sometimes I only wear underwear while fighting bad guys because I can’t handle the pressure of picking out an outfit every day. Me: And who are these bad guys you fight? C.J.: Chase when he’s Captain America, that’s why it’s okay if I’m only in my underwear, because he’s seen me in my underwear before. Me: What does Banana Man like to eat? C.J.: Cookies with milk and bananas and donuts and pickles. Me: What does Banana Man hate to eat? C.J.: Chicken and French fries and tires. Me: Well, that makes sense. C.J.: Maybe I’ll pick out one outfit that Banana Man mostly wears so I don’t have to feel pressured picking out a new outfit every day. Can you hold on a minute? Me: Sure. And, then he returned as Banana Man… Banana Man!   