Friday Fodder: Here I Am! Edition
Fri, 20 Mar 2015 23:39:34 +0000
https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2015/03/20/friday-fodder-here-i-am-edition/
All Posts #clothinghasnogender bullying Camp Aranu'tiq Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Huffington Post LGBTQ Nerdy Apple Time transgender 
 Hey Strangers! It’s been a while! C.J. had a case of pneumonia (bless his heart) that WOULD.  NOT.  GO.  AWAY.  Several trips to the hospital and several rounds of different medications and he finally kicked the thing right as Grandma and Grandpa Colorado arrived (bless their hearts) to watch the kids for a week while Matt and I vacationed in Panama (bless our hearts). So, that’s where I’ve been and, now, I’m back. Following are the things that have caught and held my attention recently. Enjoy!  More soon… * * * As many of you know, one of my badass besties is Sarah at NerdyApple.com. Her oldest child goes to school with a boy named Morgan who celebrated his 17th birthday one week ago by wearing a shrug, lace gloves and fashion belt to school. Well, the administrators at his school didn’t respond well (to put it mildly) and, now, Morgan and his family have inspired the #clothinghasnogender movement.  Read more here.  Morgan, if you or your mom read this, you should contact Sarah cause she’s awesome and her and her family will stand by you until the end. * * * Meet the New Generation of Gender-Creative Kids, TIME.com Lindsay Morris photographs a rural retreat where kids are free to be themselves. These pictures make me smile. * * * Transgender Students Learn To Navigate School Halls, NPR.org I love this piece written with such heart by a high schooler about her classmate and friend who is transgender. Bravo to the author, her friend and open-minded, open-hearted high school students everywhere. * * * ‘Sanctuary Palm Springs’ to create haven for LGBT youth, DesertSun.com A Palm Springs couple is set to open a foster home for LGBT youth. Nearly 20 percent of foster youth in their area identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender. They’ve found themselves homeless after coming out to family or being bullied at school. About 26 percent of LGBT youth say their biggest problems are not feeling accepted by family, trouble at school or bullying and a fear to be out, according to the Human Rights Campaign. “We’re calling this not a group home but an LGBT family home. Because many people, when they come out as LGBT, they lose their family,” the couple said. The home will operate as a nonprofit and provide basic necessities such as food, clothing and medical care, along with mentoring, career advice and life coaching, a range of artistic activities, therapy with local professionals and enough responsibilities to become self-sufficient. * * * It’s time to start thinking about summer camp!  If you have a transgender or gender nonconforming child, check out Camp Aranu’tiq.  If your family has LGBTQ parents, consider attending Harbor Camps LGBTQ Family Camp. Click here for more info on both camps. * * *   