{"title": "To The PTA Moms at My Son\u2019s School", "date": "Sat, 15 Nov 2014 03:00:39 +0000", "link": "https://raisingmyrainbow.com/2014/11/14/to-the-pta-moms-at-my-sons-school/", "tags": ["All Posts", "ACLU", "bullying", "Gender", "gender creative", "gender nonconforming", "GLSEN", "HRC", "LGBTQ", "Orange County", "parenting", "PFLAG", "PTA", "Welcoming Schools"], "text": " Last week I published a blog post about things said during a PTA meeting I attended at my youngest son\u2019s school. I wanted to shine a light on the homophobic, transphobic, insensitive, hateful and hurtful things that some moms said during the meeting and show that as far as we have come in LGBTQ acceptance and equality, there is still much work to be done. And sometimes that work needs to be done in heavy doses at places much closer to home than we\u2019d like. Almost immediately, PTA moms from our school started commenting, messaging and reacting viscerally on social media. As they did, I stared at the PTA tagline: Every child, One voice. I\u2019m not convinced that our PTA as a whole cares about every child and some of the voices I heard that night are not voices I want speaking on behalf of my child. That being said, of course I don\u2019t think that every parent at our school and member of the PTA is transphobic or homophobic. That would be a silly assumption and one I never made. I hope that the PTA moms at my school will reread my original blog post when their feelings have subsided and really take in and think about the words used at the meeting and the tone in which they were said. And, think about the words and tone used since then. \u201cI wasn\u2019t at the meeting, but I talked to several other moms who were and (insert defensive comment here)\u2026\u201d \u2013 PTA Mom I\u2019m not interested in gossip, hearsay or what other moms are saying behind my back. If you were not at the meeting, please do not contact me to defend the people who were in the room who used transphobic language, homophobic language and/or hate speech. Think long and hard about the people you are defending and why. I\u2019m open to conversations, but I\u2019m not open to your take on a meeting for which you were not present. Instead, let\u2019s talk about how we can make our school and community more welcoming and inclusive of all students. \u201cWe have a great group of teachers, parents and a wonderful school.\u201d \u2013 PTA Mom I\u2019m sure that if you and your child are heteronormative, cisgender and possess no special or unique needs outside of what the school and district are accustomed to dealing with, then you do view it as a wonderful school with a great group of teachers and parents. If that\u2019s the case, please consider\u00a0yourself lucky. To the mother who wrote this in particular, when both of our oldest children were in third grade at this school, mine suffered homophobic bullying and harassment to the point that he threatened suicide during winter break. His teacher, the administration at the time and the district handled the situation so horribly that we had to seek the services of a child advocate, contact the ACLU, submit a Uniform Complaint Form and have an official investigation launched. At the school last year, C.J. was bullied in the boy\u2019s bathroom by a group of boys intent on looking at his genitalia to see if he has a penis or a vagina. It\u2019s interesting to note that parents are worried about my son using the girl\u2019s restroom (which, again, he does not) for unfounded reasons, yet my son has been harassed by boys and made to feel unsafe in the boy\u2019s bathroom. So, sometimes our school doesn\u2019t seem wonderful to those of us who fall outside of what South Orange County perceives to be \u201cthe norm.\u201d Our family wants nothing more than for the school to be a wonderful place for every student and things are looking up. C.J.\u2019s current teacher is beyond amazing and the new administration has been wonderfully supportive. Our school could be wonderful, and in many ways it is, but it has work to do \u2014 as evidenced at the PTA meeting (which this mom did not attend). \u201cI was there, and while I agree that there were a few loud mouth parents there, you need to know that at least one in particular has made loud mouth, insensitive remarks about other issues, at PTA meetings and elsewhere.\u201d \u2013 PTA Member So because that \u201cloudmouth, insensitive\u201d mom is an asshole all of the time I should excuse her? She gets a free pass to say transphobic things and use hate speech because she talks nastily about everything? No. Again, think about whom you are defending and making excuses for and why. Think about it this way, if a person of color had been in the room, would people have tolerated the \u201cloudmouth, insensitive\u201d mom making white supremacist comments? I mean, after all, \u201cthat\u2019s just how she is.\u201d When we allow hate speech from one person on campus, we allow it from other people and the climate on campus suffers. \u201cYou sat way in the back and if you would have stayed after the meeting, you could have had a constructive conversation.\u201d \u2013 PTA Mom The location of my seat should not matter and bears no importance. I walked in and simply took an empty seat. I left immediately after the meeting to pick up my kids because I had to arrange childcare to be able to attend the meeting. People shouldn\u2019t have to stay after the meeting to have a constructive conversation. And, if that is the case, then that time should be agendized and communicated to all members, parents, teachers, etc. I\u2019m used to meetings where the constructive conversations take place during the allotted meeting time and biased opinions that are not relevant to the topic are shared privately post meeting, if at all. All this drama has me really considering Atlanta private schools for my son. I\u2019m always up for constructive conversations. You can reach me at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com. I\u2019ve already had a really fruitful conversation with the one mom who contacted me requesting to talk after reading the post. \u201cYou should have used this forum to educate.\u201d \u2013 PTA Mom If by \u201cthis forum\u201d you mean the online world, I\u2019ve been educating people about childhood gender nonconformity and LGBTQ youth for four years. I encourage you to read my blog and book to learn more. If you mean that I should have used the PTA meeting as a forum to educate, I argue that that was not my role that night. I was there as a mom, not as the presenter or educator. I was there to listen and learn and when things started to get out of hand, I knew it was best for me to observe and not lash out with my initial reactions. \u201cNone of those things were said\u201d and \u201cI didn\u2019t hear them.\u201d \u2013 PTA Moms The things that I wrote were said. Every single one of them. If you were at the meeting, you may not have heard everything. But, I can tell you that from where I sat I heard all of the things that I wrote \u2013 and then some. When you have a child that is directly affected by the topic being discussed, you tend to listen very closely, as I did. I wanted to hear how people responded and reacted to this issue that my family deals with daily. I did not write in my blog post any comments that I heard outside of the public meeting \u2013 and those were much, much worse. \u201cYou\u2019re giving the PTA and our school a bad name!\u201d \u2013 PTA Mom I argue that it\u2019s not me who is giving the PTA a bad name, but rather it is the moms who used transphobic, homophobic hate speech during the meeting and the peers who defended them then and have continued to defend them since who give our school and PTA a bad name. My post was not meant to be a referendum on the actual PTA organization, national, local or otherwise. For me, this horrible event could have happened anywhere: a church group, sports team, scout meeting, etc. The fact that it happened at a PTA meeting is just an example of this particular issue. That said, I do feel like our school\u2019s chapter failed at the National PTA\u2019s mission to connect all parents to their school community and encourage parent engagement. Tolerating behaviors that alienate parents due to bias and prejudice has to be addressed. \u201cI for one will never again feel comfortable asking a question at a PTA meeting\u2026 I\u2019m worried that people will not feel comfortable to ask questions.\u201d \u2013 PTA Mom Instead of this all or nothing approach to speaking out in PTA meetings, maybe you should take a minute to think about the things you are saying, the way you are saying them, who is hearing them and how they could be perceived. I teach my kids to think about what they\u2019re going to say and always speak as if a person of every gender, ethnicity, religion, race, sex, disability and sexuality is in the room. You know, just to be respectful of others. Maybe you could try that. As adults, we can usually tell when a question is being asked out of sincere interest and when it is being asked skeptically, argumentatively and dismissively.\u00a0\u00a0 I\u2019ll meet with anyone from our school who has questions that come from a place of wanting to learn about kids like my son. I\u2019m serious; I\u2019ll make time for every single family, do it confidentially, individually or in groups and give you nothing but honesty. All you have to do is ask and show up with an open heart and open mind. A special thanks to the HRC, Welcoming Schools, PFLAG and the ACLU this past week. The support I\u2019ve felt from these organizations was tremendous and critical.\u00a0 Also, even though the presenter at the PTA meeting cited statistics gathered and published by GLSEN, he was not there as a representative of GLSEN.    ", "feedtitle": "Page 10 \u2013 Raising My Rainbow"}