Links for the weekend
Sat, 10 Jan 2009 00:44:45 +0000
https://genderkid.wordpress.com/2009/01/09/links-for-the-weekend/
Links Spoken Word, Music, Arts coming out documentary photography videos 
Photography Jen Rosenstein has a beautiful portfolio including a Transformational Project. There are transfolk among the portraits, too; I recognized the Tender Hearted guy (Rocco) from Kael T Block‘s xxboys. Not safe for work: bare chests abound! One of the transmale models said: I had originally intended to just pose in my jeans and boots without a shirt but the morning of the shoot I was looking in the mirror at my reflection in a pair of black boxer briefs. “F**k it,” I thought, “I’m just gonna pose nude…I’m proud of my body…I own who I am today!” JeongMee Yoon’s Pink and Blue project is a series of photos depicting a boy or a girl surrounded by all their blue or pink possessions. It’s kind of eerie. In an interview, the photographer said: Girls train subconsciously and unconsciously to wear the color pink in order to look feminine… Some parents did not want pink colors, but the kids want it. Also, most boys did not have obsession about blue colors. Videos LGBtotheT AtoZ is an alphabetical collection of short videos narrating “biographies, pivotal historic moments and critical contemporary issues facing the trans community”. They’re pretty shallow, in my opinion, but good for a quick intro to new subjects. For instance, I hadn’t ever heard of the Dewey’s Lunch Counter protest, a trans protest that happened years before the Stonewall riots. This series come from the same channel that made Gender Rebel, a documentary about three genderqueer female-bodied people, one of whom turns out to be FTM. I managed to watch it some time ago, but now I can’t because I’m outside of the US (there’s copyright issues). Hmph. Me Genderfork published my profile. If you still haven’t visited Genderfork, do: in my opinion, it’s the most important site for genderqueer people. It started out as an androgynous photo site, but it turned into a great, thoughtful community about fluidity, questioning and androgyny. Also, my coming out story is up at the Coming Out Stories site.
Page 11 – genderkid