Surprise surgery date!
Wed, 16 Mar 2011 03:12:10 +0000
https://genderkid.wordpress.com/2011/03/16/surprise-surgery-date/
Testosterone & Surgery postaweek2011 top surgery 
Several weeks ago, I decided on a top surgeon: the one who performs the extended periareolar method. I asked his secretary to book a date, but she forgot to call us back; so I didn’t have any updates until last week, when I had another appointment with him. As it turns out, I was booked for this week — more precisely, tomorrow! The surgeon gave us a few days to think about it, given that we’d just found out (“us” is my parents and I — they’re amazingly involved). The timing is almost perfect as I haven’t started school yet, so we’ve decided to go for it. I couldn’t believe it was really happening until yesterday, when I showed the doctor my last lab results, and I had a million pre-op tasks to do that kept me from posting here. I always thought that I’d burst of nervousness the days before surgery, but I’ve felt oddly calm since setting the date a week ago. I’m not overly worried about the surgery itself: there are risks, but I’m in great health; and I’ve decided it’s worth it. I’m not too concerned about the aesthetic results, either: I’ve thought about that thoroughly before choosing a surgeon, so I have the peace of mind of knowing I made the right choice. Actually, my main concerns right now are (1) how my parents will feel during surgery — the waiting time must be awful; (2) how I’ll feel in the clinic before surgery — the preparations are probably unnerving; and (3) being weak for several weeks post-op, since my commute to school will be physically demanding. Mostly, I’m just glad I’m getting this done. I should go now, to eat & drink for the last time before surgery, and to say goodbye to my breasts. Readers and future chest: I’ll see you all tomorrow! PS: Here’s a relevant quote by Jamison Green that I found: Understanding the surgery one is seeking requires  accepting the fact that one is altering his body and that he will never  have the body with which he should have been born. This means accepting  the limitations that his body has before he gets on the operating table,  and accepting that he will not come out of this scarless, without  wounds, or without compromises. That is not to say that transmen can’t  keep working and hoping for improvements – we can and we do. But we have  to live in our bodies one way or another. We need to know how much  imperfection we can handle. Identifying as a transsexual means we have  signed up to consider these questions. not to do so is to invite  disaster.
Page 3 – genderkid