Signing up for college with the “wrong” name
Wed, 30 Sep 2009 21:52:56 +0000
https://genderkid.wordpress.com/2009/09/30/signing-up-for-college/
Genders in everyday life Personal progress bureaucracy college coming out fleeing forward name parents School transgender university 
This week, it finally hit me: in two months, I’ll be done with secondary school. I only became fully aware of the consequences today, at a “how to sign up for college” information session. I thought I wouldn’t have to sign up until next year; as it turns out, registration is next MONTH. So I have to figure out, pronto, how to get signed up with my correct name. I chose a college which, according to many word-of-mouth sources, has a “preferred name” system for trans students. However, I haven’t found any documents confirming that. Even if it is true, the person in charge of enrollment might not be aware of that, so I should be prepared. I tried calling several information numbers, unsuccessfully, and I sent emails to three different info addresses. If all fails, I’ll try going in person. I’ve chosen to stay at my school for an extra year to do introductory college-level courses  –allowing me to skip a whole year at the university– which is why I thought I wouldn’t have to sign up at college yet. I do, though, and on top of that I still have to persuade the secondary-school principal to accept my preferred name.  The good thing is, if I manage to change my name at school but not at the university, it won’t be a big deal — I’ll have an extra year to work with that. In any case, I have to come out to my parents soon. I promised myself that I’d talk to them right after graduating, so I can move forward with my life a bit. I’d like to start testosterone next year and actively research chest surgeons: I thought a lot about this, and I want both. Since graduation dates got pushed far into November, my coming out plans fall dangerously close to Christmas. I don’t want to postpone this indefinitely –even though it’s the VERY SCARIEST thing I’ve ever done– so I might talk to them before ending school. I don’t want to ruin my graduation, but it might be best to it during the school year so I have something to distract me for most of every day. I hadn’t decided on this before typing this post, so I’m feeling pretty shaken now. But I’m glad that I’m finally going confront my greatest fear. In Spanish, it’s called “huir hacia delante”: fleeing forward. I don’t know what’s going to happen next, but at least I’m going to be moving somewhere.
Page 5 – genderkid