Daughterson: Coyote Grace
Sun, 06 Sep 2009 22:10:20 +0000
https://genderkid.wordpress.com/2009/09/06/daughterson/
Links Spoken Word, Music, Arts coyote grace daughterson guy named joe lyrics music song trans trans man transcription transgender 
“Girl meets Girl. Girl becomes Boy. Girl and Boy become a band. Meet COYOTE GRACE.” I just found out about the band Coyote Grace — I loved the song “A Guy Named Joe”.  A lot of their lyrics are about being trans: isn’t that neat? Music can express universal emotions, but there are certain experiences that most people just don’t have. It’s nice to see one’s life reflected in a song every once in a while: I am a self-made man, born with my two hands I been waiting for so long to finally stand But I have no history, one day I just came to be I barely know who I am —Ghost Boy  (lyrics for A Guy Named Joe) I also liked the words to “Daughterson” — the title announces great things, and the first stanza is the perfect trans kid’s rant: My haircut don’t look right, my clothes don’t fit just right, them boy clothes are too big and the girls’ too tight. My feet, they look too small, and I ain’t very tall, I fight with my mom every time I go to the mall. I couldn’t find the lyrics anywhere, so I transcribed them (although there were a few lines I couldn’t catch). The video and transcription, after the jump.  Daughterson by Coyote Grace My haircut don’t look right, my clothes don’t fit just right, them boy clothes are too big and the girls’ too tight. My feet, they look too small, and I ain’t very tall, I fight with my mom every time I go to the mall. If I can’t be your daughterson, I ain’t nothing at all. …. Kids won’t leave me and my queenie brother alone. I don’t get picked to be on teams, oh I am scrappy and I’m mean, Those girls seem to look right through me. My body has betrayed me, my life is so upsetting. If I had only known about those girls, they saw me all right. But I’m obviously a man, but I sit down on the can, I get shots on the leg by my lady’s loving hand. I got scars across my chest, Dr Brownstein is the best, Ain’t no one can make me wear a dress. Well, just because I’ve done this doesn’t mean you’ve got to do this too. You don’t know what it’s like, now do you? Well, I think there’s a few of you that do. You say I’m going to hell, well I’ve been down that well, And God is a big boy, he can judge people himself. “Don’t mess with God’s design”, well, where do you draw the line? How ‘bout botox, fat pills, warfare, deforestation, laser hair removal, the death penalty… Well, I think I’m doing fine. Well, you’re so scared of everything… And who are you to force me to believe what you think Jesus meant? I grew up under blue skies; the pain has made me wise. My body is my home, I won’t ever be alone, I’ve found my place behind this microphone. Well, I have chose my consequence, I have chosen my name. And I can be your daughterson, ’cause they’re one and the same.
Page 5 – genderkid