Growing Taller with T
Fri, 01 May 2009 23:01:43 +0000
https://genderkid.wordpress.com/2009/05/01/growing-taller-with-t/
Personal progress growth height puberty short boys short men teen testosterone transboy young 
I’m pretty short. I’m almost as tall as the average girl –1.60m or 5′ 3”–, which makes me shorter than almost all the men I know. I don’t really mind –I don’t feel inferior because of my height or anything; I hardly even think about that– but maybe it would be easier if I were a little taller. I could find pants that actually fit, for instance. What does annoy me is people’s attitudes towards short guys. I have a very short classmate and people are always teasing him about his height, while they don’t usually say anything about short girls. And whenever my friends are talking about the kind of men they like, they all agree that short guys aren’t attractive. I don’t think I can criticize their tastes, but I think it’s disrespectful to say that when I’m RIGHT THERE (they tend to forget I’m a boy). Actually, I can’t think of many advantages that come from being tall; maybe reaching high shelves, but you can use steps for that. And I never had trouble with my height as a girl. But sometimes  feel hurried to take testosterone because if I start before the end of puberty, I might grow a little (I checked a biology textbook that said bone growth might continue until age 20). I don’t know if I need that, but I know I wouldn’t mind; and I don’t want to regret missing out on this possibility. What would be great about growing is that my hips might narrow. The biology books I consulted say that estrogen makes hip bones grow wider (T does the same for the shoulders), so if T made me grow, maybe my hips would end up growing less than the rest of me. I’m usually more or less tolerant of my body, but I do not like having wide hips AT ALL. Anyway, my hips will look narrower with T because of the fat loss. I also heard that testosterone has better effects if taken early, but I haven’t found much information about that. It seems to have great results at all ages; Gender Outlaw started as an adult and his feet grew, which would be useful for me (I never find men’s shoes in my size). I should ask Julian in a few months; he’s 18 and just started T. This kind of info is very important for deciding when to come out to my parents, so I’m still researching it. I plan on telling my parents when I finish this school year, soon after turning 18, and I hoped to start T a few months later; but my psychologist thinks they will need a whole year to digest the information, so I should delay starting T. If that might mean missing the opportunity of having a body that’s better for me, I don’t know if I can wait. An alternative would be to tell them now and risk becoming an emotional mess in the middle of the school year, just so I can start T earlier. I’m trying to decide what my priorities are.
Page 7 – genderkid