What’s your gender? – Part II
Mon, 30 Mar 2009 12:00:48 +0000
https://genderkid.wordpress.com/2009/03/30/whats-your-gender-part-ii/
Activism, Politics and Mass Media Genders in everyday life Humor Words and terms activity cisgender exercise experiment gender genderform Genderqueer genders identities identity list School terms trans 101 transgender words yay 
I’ve been thinking about a fun Trans 101 activity we could do at school. I really want to get my fellow students to rethink gender, but it’s hard to convince people to come to an educational thing voluntarily. So maybe I should start out with the people who come to our diversity group meetings (queer-straight alliance type thing we founded last year). I could print out a version of the Yay! Genderform and hand it out. Sarah from Genderfork thinks that might work, and I do too (thanks for the idea, Sarah!): Hey, so I’ve been on this little kick lately to try to get people to see their gender as a list of descriptive words. For example, I want to claim my gender as: female, androgynous, queer. The people I explain this to tend to get it — it makes sense. But then, when I ask how they identify, I get a deer-in-headlights look of “Oh! Um! Off the top of my head? I dunno!” I have a little theory that if I handed them a list of pre-approved Gender Words, they’d have a much easier time with this exercise. Maybe people would be overwhelmed at first, but if you include funny terms, or words that cisgender people can relate to, they might loosen up and play along (things like “glamorous” and “friend of Dorothy” should be well-received among a queer crowd). Julian also suggested printing out your gender badge and handing it out to people. I’d like to make stickers and paste them onto every form that asks you to  check “male” or “female” (a “none of your business” sticker would work, too). PS: The Yay! Genderform is now 929 terms strong — I suggested “puto” and “tortillera”, which are Spanish for “fag” and “dyke”. The list seems to be growing every day!
Page 8 – genderkid