What’s your gender?
Sun, 29 Mar 2009 01:52:16 +0000
https://genderkid.wordpress.com/2009/03/28/whats-your-gender/
Genderqueer Genders in everyday life Links Words and terms gender genders identities identity link orientation transgender 
This site has a very long list of terms related to gender, sex, orientation, personality, etc; you can choose all the words you identify with and create a presentation badge:     Hello My name is   genderkid   My gender identity is   activist, ambiguous, ask me, blessed, both, boy, boy lover, butch-liking, complex, curious, FTM, FTX, fagdyke, friend, full of love, gay-friendly, gender euphoric, gender expressive, gender liberationist, gender transcender, gender warrior, genderfuck, genderqueer, gentleman, guy, happy, lesbro, Mr., open, philosopher, queer, queer liberationist, queer-friendly, queer-minded, queergendered, simple, sir, trans, transboy, transfag, transgender, transgender warrior, transguy, transkid, transmale, transman, transmasculine, transperson, transtheorist   What’s yours    “There are exactly 925 options here, and a total of  2.8363×10278 or 283 unnovemgintillion possible combinations, more than there are elementary particles in the universe. If each option were a computer bit, it would take 116 bytes to encode a combination.” Wow. And this is just a small selection of all the possible ways we can identify; I identify as “non-binary”, for instance, and I bet you can think of other gender words that represent you. Plus, there are hundreds of cultures with words and genders that don’t exactly translate as “man” or “woman”, so there’s an infinite number of ways to define ourselves. Too bad most people only identifies as one of the culturally-sanctioned genders. This site made me think about how our gender identity blends with the rest of our identity. I wondered why there were checkboxes for things like personality and political affiliation; but then orientation/affection isn’t strictly about gender either, and I tend to lump them together, saying I’m a queer transboy (the “queer” part is important to me: it defines my non-binary mindset). I guess the author thinks of us as whole human beings who can’t be split into different categories so easily: “Although I really wanted the words to stand for themselves, without tainting them by splitting them up, with 925 options that’s not really plausible. So I have categorized them into groups. Like any other classification system, this is completely arbitrary. You can still view one long list if you like…” Hat-tip to Meitar Moscovitz, who commented about this site on Genderfork. Thanks, Meitar!
Page 8 – genderkid