My queer identity
Mon, 09 Feb 2009 14:29:16 +0000
https://genderkid.wordpress.com/2009/02/09/my-queer-identity/
Personal progress Theorizing Words and terms attraction bisexual gay identification identity Lesbian Queer s. bear bergman sexual orientation sexuality terms trans transgender 
I used to identify as a lesbian. A die-hard, no-man-will-ever-touch-me dyke. However, when I started seeing myself as a boy, my attractions shifted: I began seeing the beauty in male bodies, and now I hardly even look at women. At first, I thought it might be confusion; maybe I didn’t desire a male body for my partner, but for myself (the do-be-do-be-do complex!). I don’t think that’s likely, though. I can totally picture myself going out with a man now that I’m a transman myself. Back when I identified as a lesbian, I couldn’t have pictured that. I could not see myself, as a woman, going out with a man. Now… ohh darn, men are gorgeous. I can see myself going out with people of any sex or gender identification. I’m most attracted to people whose gender lies between androgynous and masculine, but within that, I think I’d be willing to date men, women, genderqueers or others; and I could be attracted to a femme person, eventually. Does that mean I’m bisexual? I don’t like that word; it implies that there are only two sexes; or maybe two genders? In any case, there are way more than two. I prefer “queer”. Even if I turn out to be only attracted to men, I’d prefer queer over “gay” or “fag” or the even more inaccurate “homosexual” because I don’t identify completely with the gender binary (transfag would work, though). S. Bear Bergman put it best:  At the base, the current terms of sexual orientation that the language offers (hetero, homo, bi) are problematic because they rely on a bipolar gendered system that is coming apart at the seams even as we fuck. In order to identify myself as a heterosexual, I first have to be able to identify in some sort of concrete way what my own gender is, and then decide whether it has an opposite, which still does not, in the strictest sense, fulfill the definition of heterosexual because hetero isn’t Greek for “opposite,” it’s Greek for “other”. So as long as I’m attracted to people of a different gender than I am, I am heterosexual, except that in this language that’s really just one other and also I might be attracted to someone who is the same sex but a different gender, and so I as a butch could therefore be attracted to femmes and call myself heterosexual under that definition (…).   Queer doesn’t assume any gender, or any sexual behavior, only a certain disregard for social norms regarding gendered and sexual behavior. That’s a sexual orientation that may wear better, whatever changes the next hundred years may bring.
Page 10 – genderkid