“Psychology suggests that only after healing yourself can you begin to heal the world. We disagree. People do not have to be perfectly functioning, self-actualized human beings in order to create social change. Think of the lesbians and feminists you know who have been influential in the world, and who have worked hard and effectively for social justice: have they all loved and accepted themselves?” – Celia Kitzinger and Rachel Perkins, Changing Our Minds: Lesbian Feminism and Psychology  I am so tired of people assuming that I believe “better” therapists (or therapeutic guidelines) are the solution to the existence of women who stop transition. It’s a reflexive defanging of my actual position, which has often already been clearly stated: I am deeply hostile to the concept of paying a professional to act as an authority figure regarding my inner life. Avoiding therapists has done me an awful lot more good than going near them ever did. I read Changing Our Minds recently, a book by two lesbians trained as psychologists, which argues that the whole concept of psychology contradicts many aspects of lesbian feminist politics. It was incredibly insightful and I really, really recommend it to any women curious about the details of the positions I’m talking about in this post. From a section titled Therapy Is Wrong: Therapy is taking over our everyday lives as lesbians. Although we have criticized many individual therapists and therapists in this chapter, our main objective has been to point out that the very idea of therapy is wrong. We do not think the situation is improved by ‘ethical guidelines’ for therapists, however efficiently these are enforced, because we think therapy in and of itself is a fundamentally unethical enterprise… if something is bad, it doesn’t become ‘good’ just because more people have access to it. The fundamental problem is not the abuses some therapists perpetrate, nor the racist, classist, and able-minded conditions of access to therapy (although all those things are problems too). The fundamental problem is the nature of therapy itself. We would like lesbians to know the difference between therapy and feminism (even if they sometimes still choose therapy). We would like lesbians to believe that most of us, most of the time, are strong and capable human beings who do not need to be ‘cured’…and that on those occasions when we are not strong and capable, we are- or should be, could be- able to take care of each other. To the extent that we are not, that is an indictment of our movement.” I agree with this. I know others who say they’ve benefited from therapy, and I’m not arguing that they didn’t. At its best, therapy resembles friendship, and some friendships are incredibly helpful, but being licensed as a counselor of some kind in no way guarantees that someone is capable of helping another person. I suspect that the people who’ve gotten a lot out of therapy would have gotten even more from an actual friendship with that same therapist, on equal footing. Providing support to each other should be a primary function of community. Outsourcing our needs might feel very necessary, and on an individual scale, I wouldn’t fault any woman for feeling the need to do so. On a broader scale, though, relying on paid professionals to help us takes away part of what drives us to work together, and can easily cause us to personalize what we face- to the exclusion of politicizing it. Another one of the ideas in this book that really got me was that, in many ways, how we feel isn’t always necessarily that important, and eternally turning inward to try and resolve the problems you see as personal can be considered an action that runs contrary to feminist beliefs. “When I first heard . . . that Gloria Steinem didn’t have self-esteem, my reaction was: “Who cares? Look what she’s done with her life! It’s the life that matters in the end.” – C. Sternhell, as quoted in Changing Our Minds I was floored when I read this. It had never occurred to me to question the inherent importance of constantly examining every detail of our inner lives. I felt like the more issues I had, the less politically effective I could be. In some ways, yeah, problems like being unwilling to go outdoors in daylight have had material consequences, in terms of what I can do for other women. Even then, though, I didn’t start going outside more often because of psychologists. Initially, I started going outside more because I got a dog to help me with certain stuff and was training her for public access. I got more resilient about how other people saw me because my beliefs changed around the meaning of my appearance and how others interpreted it. That resistance to leaving the house was not a “personal problem”, either- it was a direct consequence of being told by the trans scene I was in that being seen one way or another was supposed to feel validating, and my gradual realization that (at the time) there was no way others could view me that didn’t make me feel sick. I found relief through practical changes in my circumstances and through shifting my ideological framework. Basically… the idea that public accomplishments could matter more than one’s internal world, past or present, was really freeing to me. Shortly after I read this book, I learned about a woman whose life really exemplifies that concept: Pauli Murray, a black lesbian who overcame huge institutional barriers to help found NOW, contribute to the Brown v. Board of Education victory, write papers used to uphold the ERA, organize influential early protests against segregation, and much, much more. The same New Yorker article that writes glowingly of Murray’s many successes also devotes a few hundred words to a more private struggle of hers. Murray’s complicated feelings about being female as a black lesbian in the 1900s are distilled to “Murray, the passionate advocate for women’s rights, identified as a man.” This position seems to be based on the interpretation of Murray’s documents found in Rosalie Rosenberg’s book, Jane Crow: The Life of Pauli Murray. It’s noted that Murray sought transition well before the 1960s but did not find medical services available. What, then, of the rest of Murray’s life? She died in 1985. FTM transition was not so inaccessible by then, at least not for a tenured professor. The simpler explanation is that Murray found a way to live without transition, as necessary as it may have felt at some points. Murray, for her part, wrote her own autobiography that made no mention of these issues. Rosenberg’s interpretation as represented in this article, that a woman who seeks transition at one point must not be a woman after all, speaks of a fundamental misunderstanding of the social forces impacting women, and possibly of a lack of intellectual honesty concerning the life and works of other women. These same qualities are evidenced in an earlier project of Rosenberg’s (as described in Susan Faludi’s Backlash): testifying against the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on behalf of the Sears corporation. She stated that their female employees are consistently passed over for high-paying commission sales positions because this was the “natural effect” of women’s “differences”, and that to mistake this sex-based discrepancy in hiring for sexism was “naive”. Rosenberg was friendly with the Sears chief defense lawyer, who had once employed her ex-husband. In preparing her testimony, she chose not to speak with any women employed at Sears. “In forming her opinions on this case, Rosenberg didn’t conduct any independent research. She didn’t talk to any actual saleswomen or interview any female employees at Sears: ‘I just pretty much relied on what [the Sears legal team] gave me.’ To help the Sears lawyers, she culled evidence from other scholars’ books, evidence that she said showed that women traditionally prefer ‘different’, more female types of jobs. She handed over this material to the Sears lawyers. They wrote her court statement for her, she says– then handed her the completed brief to sign. …When the EEOC lawyer received a copy of the written testimony, they passed it on to Kessler-Harris for her comments. ‘This is not an argument that any reasonable historian would make,’ Kessler-Harris recalls thinking at the time… When Rosenburg did proceed to court, Kessler-Harris agreed to testify for the EEOC to correct the record on her own writings. In court, Kessler-Harris pointed out where Rosenberg had twisted the meaning of her work, mostly through the creative use of ellipses. For example, Rosenberg had quoted Kessler-Harris as saying that women quit industrial jobs in droves after the WWII- as historical evidence women have ‘chosen’ not to hold traditional male jobs. But she skipped over the part where Kessler-Harris said women hadn’t willingly abandoned their posts, but had been forced out to make way for returning soldiers. Rosenberg had taken similar liberties with the work of other scholars. One of the distortions of Phyllis Wallace’s study of the AT&T case was so egregious that, when challenged in court, Rosenberg retracted it and asked it to be expunged from the record. ‘It was a mistake,’ she says now, made in the rush of compiling her evidence for Sears.” -Susan Faludi, Backlash I’m glad I was reading Backlash when I found out about Rosenberg’s interpretation of Murray’s experiences; the context Faludi provides regarding the nature in which Rosenberg has approached “scholarship” in the past was really helpful. When someone else writes your story, they can say whatever they want about what your feelings meant, but they can only misrepresent your actions to the extent that they were never documented honestly. I agree wholeheartedly with Sternhell – it’s the life that matters in the end. Murray was amazing either way, and her emphasis on taking action rather than viewing herself as the problem is an inspiration. Seeing my own pain as political can make me feel hopeless at times, because it reveals the overwhelming extent of what’s wrong with our society, but viewing my problems as purely personal is what actually removes all hope for change. I don’t want to do that. Identifying what’s going wrong is the first step to formulating a coherent strategy of resistance. Uncategorized mental health Here’s a post where I think about my neckbeard for a while and then get wound up about Donald Trump. Classic!! So… when I first told everyone at work I was really female and had been all along, it was after months of shaving my facial hair, ostensibly in order to make myself more believable. I kept shaving for months after that, specifically in order to make myself appear credibly female to others. I still got read as male a lot of the time, and I still often got treated weird when seen as female, because I still looked like a fat butch lesbian with a completely flat chest. When I stopped shaving, it turned out the beard really didn’t make much of a difference. Seems like I’m already past some kind of freakishness threshold and out here, it’s kind of a free-for-all. There’s no real winning for women anyway. A lot of the time you might as well do what you want. And I don’t like shaving! Removing my facial hair (besides a tiny little mustache that I’m not overly fond of aesthetically and do spend like 20 seconds shaving every few days) is not something I wanted to do, or something I was doing for myself. Other women have different experiences here, but this is mine. When I’m feeling at or better than my baseline state, which is most the time lately, I like the way I look. I look like a woman I’d be happy to see and happier to get to know. I don’t always stick to my guns on this. I’ve shaved for my last few job interviews, now that my ID says female. I should probably stop doing that. A job that’s hostile to women who look how I usually look isn’t going to be a good fit anyway, something several different women with more life experience than me have expressed. I don’t really feel great about shaving for my driver’s license photo, either. It makes me feel like I’m still prioritizing other people’s ideas of who I should be and how I should look over what I actually feel comfortable with. I’m tired of feeling that way. I feel like I’m still trying to peel away all these bad habits, and trying to please others at the expense of being myself is one of them. I’m not saying these feelings are intrinsic to hair removal. I know plenty of women whose descriptions of their relationships to their facial hair are really different from mine. But I’m not living their lives, and they’re not living mine. If someone else does feel good about removing all that stuff, that’s her business. It doesn’t feel good to me. The more I give myself permission to stop caring what others think, the more relaxed and authentic I can be, and you know what? A lot of people like authentic, even if they also think you’re kind of a freak. Not being so nervous about others see you makes it a lot easier to connect sincerely. Yeah, connecting with a lot of people might also be easier if “being authentic” to me didn’t include usually not shaving my neckbeard very often, or if I wasn’t a butch lesbian, but that wouldn’t be my life. Getting hung up on lives that are so different from my own that they’re really entirely another (imaginary!) woman’s life is not helpful to me. I have stuff to do, and this is what I have to work with, and it’s enough. That’s something I keep coming back to: what’s left of my body might be less than ideal in some senses, and the process of that loss was difficult, but there’s clearly enough of me to continue living. Anyway… feels kinda silly to keep on working through my feelings about my appearance right now. Really seems like things are about to get an awful lot worse here. I guess I’m still dipping in and out of denial about that. Really sucks to be too poor to have an escape plan or even start stockpiling more than a little survival stuff. We’re working on plans for some actual organizing where we are, and in the meantime we’re calling numbers and writing emails. Redressalert’s post related to this stuff is good reading. So is Crash’s. One or both of them link to this really important article by Masha Gessen, a Jewish woman who has survived other autocracies. Gessen has written another article since that’s equally relevant. There is no good reason I can see to be optimistic about the outcome of this election, and being realistic means challenging ourselves to remain present enough that we can react appropriately to the level of threat that is approaching very, very soon. Uncategorized worrying Being isolated from others who have complicated feelings about their transition and being unaware of alternative ways to handle the feelings that led me to transition seemed to be the main factors that kept me from exploring negative feelings about this stuff. Without access to those, I think I would have continued transitioning indefinitely. It didn’t feel like a choice. I have a major beef with that- the idea that transition isn’t a choice. I felt I had no choice but transition for a long time, and the reason I felt that way was because other choices were not offered to me. I didn’t know anyone who had survived feelings like mine without transition, and I didn’t have any ideas about how someone might do that. That’s a problem! How can someone give informed consent to transition when they believe the only alternative is a miserable life eventually cut short by suicide?  People who transition believing it’s absolutely the only way they can ever experience any relief are people whose community and healthcare professionals have failed them. No doctor told me that getting a troubled shelter dog and training her as a psychiatric service dog, or being in a loving and supportive relationship, or having a bunch of friends with similar experiences, might provide enough relief that I wouldn’t have to live as a man in order to feel okay. They totally did, though. That definitely happened to me. The fact that a lot of people see advice for coping with distress that doesn’t involve medication or surgery as inherently invalidating is pretty messed up. I’ve seen it expressed that anyone whose drive to transition can be addressed without actually transitioning (or continuing to transition) can’t possibly be experiencing as much pain as someone who’s really trans. Within this model, you aren’t even really suffering unless you believe they’re the only ones who can help. Believing that puts so much power in the hands of for-profit institutions. The tools used by the medical industrial complex can help people, for sure, and everyone is entitled to decide for herself what approaches to try. But it’s just not true that, for someone’s distress to be valid, it has to be unresponsive to everything except pharmaceuticals or surgery. Finding substantial relief outside a doctor’s office does not inherently mean that the condition was any less serious. A woman I know once said something along the lines of, if the top priority of all providers of transgender healthcare services was really to help people feel their best, they’d be banging down the doors of all these women talking about alternative strategies for coping with feelings currently or formerly diagnosable as gender dysphoria. I think this is entirely accurate, and I think it’s telling that it hasn’t happened. Uncategorized choice I was really lucky that, when my dissociative defenses started gradually crumbling around me, other women had already been organizing around the experience of stopping transition- other women who have lived it. If it wasn’t for the community that existed because of their hard work, I doubt I would have stopped transition any time soon. The alternatives to community created “for us, by us” looked a lot gnarlier to me than continuing to pretend I was a man on the inside. For example, my main exposure to criticism of transition, while I was transitioning, was a certain blogger who loves to post photo roundups of unfortunate FTM souls. Seeing post-op pictures of actual people’s actual chests and genitals, that they live with every day, shared nonconsensually (yeah, they were already online, but they were sensitive pictures not shared with any intention of being consumed as anti-trans media) strongly reinforced the hyperbolic descriptions of radical feminists that I was already hearing from the trans community. I read this content compulsively anyway. It caused emotional flashbacks to extreme shame and self hatred. In response to that level of desperation, my drive to transition felt even more immense. When I was transitioning, I knew a lot of other FTMs who would compulsively trigger themselves using the same blog. None of us stopped transitioning as a result of it, either. We just cried a lot about it. The value of community and activism directed by the individuals it’s stated to serve has been identified by individuals from a wide range of specific experiences. The motto of the Autistic Self Advocacy network is “nothing about us, without us”. Girls Educational & Mentoring Services, an organization created to serve trafficked women and girls, was founded by a woman trafficked in childhood and states as part of their philosophy that “the voices and experiences of youth survivors are integral to the development and implementation of all GEMS’ programming.” It isn’t a new idea that people facing specific challenges know a thing or two about those challenges, and that those observing from the outside often approach their issues in counterproductive ways. Many women (I don’t attempt to build community with males) who have never transitioned consistently fail to approach the issue with genuine empathy. Some of them appear to believe that, before a woman with a history of transition can be welcomed back into the fold, proper penance must be demonstrated. We are apparently obligated to apologize personally for every anti-feminist action ever performed by anyone FTM. “Abandoning womanhood” is seen as deeply selfish. Nobody can truly abandon their trauma, no matter how hard they might try, and there is nothing anyone female can do to void her right to name herself as a woman if she so chooses. Asking us to carry the real or perceived sins of everyone else on the same path we took is not fair, and expecting us to talk shit with you about those who don’t stop transition is fucked up. We are not “special snowflakes” for recognizing the areas in which our experiences are distinct and having the self-empathy to recognize when we’re being treated poorly. Transition may not be a feminist act, but we are not bad feminists for trying our best to survive. Is transition a selfish act? Insofar as any acts intended to be self-preserving over all else are, yeah. It’s worth noting here that the perception of attempted self-preservation as immorally selfish is applied very sparingly to the actions of white, straight men, but broadly applied to anyone female (especially women dehumanized in additional ways), even by other women within feminist community. Are we entitled to protect our own lives to the best of our ability, or aren’t we? Under patriarchy, women are frequently presented with situations in which it is not in their own immediate best interests to act out feminist principles. Shitting on FTMs is not any more politically justifiable than mocking a woman for wearing makeup to work or getting “feminizing” cosmetic surgery. I absolutely do not believe that transition is more selfish than expecting other women to self-flagellate for having transitioned. Condemning someone for choosing (under duress!) an option that kept her alive but did not uplift other women is not compatible with a realistic assessment of the threats women live under. Referring to transition as an act of self-preservation might seem confusing, since I’ve discussed in the past how I experienced it as self-harm. In reconciling the knowledge that many women ultimately felt their transition was an act of self-harm with the way many currently transitioning describe the process as life-saving, the concept of self-harm as self-preservation is essential. From SANE, a organization established in the UK to improve quality of life for those affected by mental illness:  Paradoxically, self-harm is mainly an act of self-preservation. Participants found it helpful in controlling emotions and behaviour. There was a sense of a struggle against behavioural impulses that did not match long term goals and peoples’ understanding of who they are. Most commonly, suicidal behaviour needed curbing– over 100 participants said self-harming had prevented them from killing themselves. Instances of self-harm (particularly wrist-cutting and overdosing) have been mistaken for suicide attempts. It was clear, though, from our research, there was rarely a wish to die. Rather, participants often harmed to end periods of intense suicidal thoughts and feelings: trying to save, not eliminate themselves.  Many believed that harming prevented them from acts of violence and generally made them able to behave in a more acceptable way. Often this entailed limiting expressions of emotion, hiding how one truly thinks and feels: “It keeps me happy in front of others. It has stopped my depression spilling out.” Self-harm appears to be associated with a felt need to keep inner life hidden from others, even family and friends.  For women living under patriarchy, self-preservation frequently appears to require self-harm. Once in a while, maybe there really isn’t any way to survive without self-harm. Often, there is, but to the victim of direct abuse or societal violence, an open door doesn’t always look like an open door. We do our best. Self-harm is an expression of distress. Realistic discussion of the potential costs of a given strategy is important- we all deserve accurate information about our choices- but condemnation is not. Just stopping the behavior itself won’t eliminate the distress that made it feel necessary in the first place. From SANE again:  Six participants wrote that it was pivotal to the success of their attempt to discontinue harming to keep choice to harm as a possibility. This may be for fear of losing a coping mechanism; it may also be that accepting the possibility of future self-harm may validate past decisions to harm, removing associated guilt and shame:  “After I’d been in hospital, I went to the college nurse and told her I had been self-harming. She told me that there was nothing wrong with doing it and that I should continue if I wanted to, and booked me into see a counsellor. By telling me that I could do it, it took the guilt out of the cycle and I slowly began to stop. I finally realised that what I was doing wasn’t ‘bad’ or ‘wrong’, it was just my way of coping.” Taking the guilt out of the cycle may be an important element in successful treatment: following the usual feelings of relief/release and/or calm, a quarter of participants felt guilt/shame/embarrassment and one in nine experienced self-loathing after an episode of self-harm. Given that these emotions were also precipitants of self-harm it is easy to see how such behaviour can feed itself in a vicious circular dynamic– but only insofar as it is interpreted as wrong or loathsome rather than a simple fact.  It is not helpful to shame, mock, or express disgust with the strategies a woman has employed in an attempt to survive the circumstances of her life, and sabotaging another woman’s healing from patriarchal trauma is an anti-feminist act. If you need to vent about your own complicated feelings concerning a certain survival strategy, find an appropriate place to communicate about that. Feel what you feel. But have some respect for your sisters when you do it. Don’t act like “transmen betray women” or “FTM bodies are disgusting” is a sound feminist critique. It’s not.  While we’re on the subject: voyeuristic consumption of uncredited post-op images of someone’s shirtless or naked body taken without permission and used for basically the polar opposite of the OP’s intentions is not chill, whatever judgements you hold about those intentions.  Asking for a little bit of sensitivity around an issue that has shaped so many women’s bodies and lives in ways that will never leave us isn’t the same as saying that transition should never be criticized, and expecting somebody you just met with a history of transition to grovel for your forgiveness because you’re carrying a lot of intense emotions about the type of trauma she has lived with is wildly inappropriate.  On top of being morally wrong, treating other women like stupid, selfish traitors is a shit political strategy. By refusing to regard anyone with a history of transition as your sister unless she demonstrates sufficient submissiveness and willingness to disavow others who made the same choices she did, you’re screening out everyone in that group who has fought to reclaim some amount of self-worth. The handful who may continue to engage with you despite your mistreatment of them are not going to be able to feel or perform their best in a messed up emotional climate like that. For those observing from outside and still buying into trans ideology, these displays of callousness (and the presence of obviously self-hating detransitioned women being expected to atone) validate the idea that “TERFs” are heartless bogeywomyn.   Expressing empathy for those who transition, on the other hand, paves the way for anyone with these experiences looking for a way back home by facilitating sincere connection and understanding. Many of us felt there was no way we could conceive of ourselves as female anymore, that we didn’t deserve to, and that weren’t wanted anywhere. This belief can trap somebody for years living a life they no longer want.  Living stealth as a man was the loneliest I’ve ever felt. It was absolutely fucking miserable. It’s so not okay to undermine opportunities for someone of that experience to connect with other women, provided she’s ready to engage in good faith. That’s another thing- loving boundaries created to protect the intentions of female space are not incompatible with making room for those of us with a history of transition. If a currently trans-identified female is still trying to talk others into transition, or isn’t okay with being acknowledged as a woman within women’s community, she’s probably not ready to participate there. That doesn’t mean she’s an evil traitor to femaleness, though. It doesn’t mean she’s “like a man”. It just means she may not be a good fit for that group right then, because she’s carrying some complicated baggage that could hurt others.   This isn’t about making sure we have pronoun circles at our bonfires or eroding the definition of female. It’s about listening to each other. It’s about welcoming women who recognize a need to find community as women, but aren’t sure they have a place anywhere anymore. We all need each other. We all need to be seen. Uncategorized strategy I get all kinds of intrusive thoughts, or whatever you wanna call it when stuff comes into your head unbidden and upsets you if you engage with it. I think they’re kind of like dreams- products of parts of your brain you can’t control, with wildly varying levels of significance. Sometimes it’s meaningless regurgitated images or words, sometimes it’s an expression of shit that runs really deep, sometimes it’s a nasty and disturbing combination. Right now I’m stuck on “I want to be beautiful” or “I’m tired of being ugly”. It feels like it’s my 13 year old self saying that in my head. There’s so much shit there. When I was that age, I had started wearing push-up bras and trying to date guys. It was horrible. I “blended in” exactly as much as I could, and it gave me no relief. It didn’t work. I couldn’t do it right, and even when I got as close as possible for me, it felt like shit. After a couple years of that I gave up and tried to be myself- a cranky lesbian. This was not well-received. Another year and I wanted to transition. The other day, my girlfriend said she wanted everyone in the world to think she was beautiful. I said I wanted that too. She thought for a little bit and then corrected herself, saying what she really wanted was for everybody to think she was valuable. That makes a lot of sense to me. All our lives, women are told a million different ways that our true value is in our looks. This can be incredibly destructive to any woman. Those who do “look right” have their own set of challenges here, but honestly, I don’t know nearly as much about all that. Sharing across that kind of experience gap takes so much vulnerability on both sides. What I know more about is being seen as an unfuckable freak. When that’s how others treat you, of course you think being seen as beautiful is the solution. It’s not really about vanity, or about looking a certain way. Beauty standards are temporally and culturally bound. Wanting to feel worthy of love isn’t. That’s part of why, for a while, I straddled that line, trying to make myself fuckable for men. At the time, I thought that was the same as lovable. I wasn’t allowed to dress how I wanted anyway, so I tried to hide my butchness and play up my DD breasts. It was a really messy few years.  I had sex with a man and it was disgusting. I saw my best friend assaulted. A lot of rough family stuff happened. When I came out as trans and was eventually allowed to choose my clothes, that was a really amazing feeling. Throughout transition and detransition, ever since I got control over how I look at around 16, I’ve pretty much stuck with the same look. I get basically the same haircut (which I grow out to variable stages before losing my shit about how bad it looks “long” and cutting it again). I wear mens clothes a couple sizes too big. I don’t wear makeup. I don’t shave, except when I’m feeling self-conscious about my facial hair for some reason. The reason this stuff hasn’t really changed is because, when I’m not freaking out what other people think, I like how I look. I know what I’m comfortable in. So it really makes me feel crazy when I get echoes of adolescent wishes to be pretty and normal. On the other hand, it totally makes sense right now. I feel like a repulsive freak an awful lot lately. It’s hard to remember that I don’t always feel this way. When I’m surrounded by butch women, detransitioned women, and others who don’t fit in a lot of places, I don’t worry that I’m a literal monster who deserves to be immolated for the good of society. What I’m experiencing is not innate to being a funny-looking woman. It’s not caused by my body, and it’s not caused by how I present myself. It’s caused by isolation from supportive community, and forced engagement with people who can’t (or won’t) really see me. Anyway, my girlfriend and me went out to a nature reserve so I feel a lot better than I did when I started writing this. I love algae and willows and weird bugs. We met a nice couple on okcupid last week and I’m trying to make friends with someone from Craigslist. Would super love to have more than zero good friends within a 3 hour drive. Maybe we’ll get there eventually. A billion different pretty necessary expenses we can’t afford have been coming up for months and my work is super stressful, but all things considered, it feels like I’m doing a lot better lately. Uncategorized ugly Despite the many massive and immediately obvious differences between the two, I think suicide contagion and how that spreads is relevant to discussions of social contagion as a trigger for transition. Both are drastic strategies generally employed, at least in part, as an attempt to alleviate acute dissatisfaction with one’s life. I struggled with a drive to commit suicide for a long time and still have issues with suicidal ideation at times. My transition was motivated in part by my belief that it would make me less suicidal. In terms of suicide contagion, the role of preexisting vulnerabilities is acknowledged as a necessary causal factor for suicide contagion to impact someone. In terms of suicide contagion, it’s not just like it’s actually just a result of seeing something on tv or whatever. What happens is that seeing suicide discussed in certain ways can function as a trigger event for life-ending self harm behavior, in the context of someone’s current situation. While transition is not inherently life-ending by any means, the rise in incidence as its presence on mainstream and social media rises indicates that social contagion is probably a factor at play here. Here’s some further thoughts on that.      Another similar feature is the possibility of “mass clusters” of suicides, as well as “point clusters” of suicides occurring on a smaller scale. These are patterns that many of us have seen with transition.  From the abstract for “The Clustering and Contagion of Suicide”:    Two general types of suicide cluster have been discussed in the literature; roughly, these can be classified as mass clusters and point clusters. Mass clusters are media related, and the evidence for them is equivocal; point clusters are local phenomena, and these do appear to occur. Contagion has not been conceptually well developed nor empirically well supported as an explanation for suicide clusters. An alternative explanation for why suicides sometimes cluster is articulated: People who are vulnerable to suicide may cluster well before the occurrence of any overt suicidal stimulus, and when they experience severe negative events, including but not limited to the suicidal behavior of one member of the cluster, all members of the cluster are at increased risk for suicidality (a risk that may be offset by good social support).   On a local scale, many of us involved in trans community have watched “point cluster”-structured explosions of transition within a social group happen right in front of us. I know I’ve watched friend groups go from having a couple trans people to entirely trans-identified, online many times and once in person. This also appears to be occurring on a “mass cluster”-like scale… here’s a graphic an online news site posted in an article speaking positively about transition, showing the rise in referrals to the only clinic in England handling pediatric transition.   If you view transition as exclusively positive, this rise in its incidence is a good thing. As someone who experienced transition as an effort to medically “correct” me as an underage traumatized butch lesbian with a learning disability, though, I have a hard time believing that no one else is going to be hurt by this. I sought transition because I could see no other way to move forward. Have all 1,398 of these children and adolescents been made aware of other ways to cope with these feelings, involving fewer medical risks and no ongoing reliance on synthetic hormones? Were their struggles all seen and respected before they pursued transition? Are they all cognitively developed enough to make fully educated choices when it comes to decisions that may affect their bodies in huge ways for the rest of their lives? I doubt this very much.  Anyways- here’s the aspects of media reporting that the CDC cites as contributing to suicide contagion.   Presenting simplistic explanations for suicide Providing sensational coverage of suicide Reporting “how-to” descriptions of suicide  Presenting suicide as a tool for accomplishing certain ends Glorifying suicide or persons who commit suicide Focusing on the suicide completer’s positive characteristics    As a thought experiment, replace “suicide” with “transition” in each of these “don’ts”. Does that not describe how transition is frequently discussed, both intercommunity and to an increasing degree, even in media outside the community? Obviously there’s a ton of media against transition, too… but everyone in the world is also saturated with media that (in terms of explicit messages, if not how it treats people struggling) generally discourages suicide (in a range of ways with very diverse levels of empathy and potential helpfulness to a suicidal person). In light of that, I don’t think the existence of a shit ton of trans-people-hating media wholly invalidates the comparison. Another important note: suicide contagion is generally seen as most likely to occur when a vulnerable population feels they have a lot in common with the deceased. I feel that this fits the patterns I’ve seen in trans communities- people seem more likely to consider transition when someone who they previously viewed as “the same” as them begins transition. For example, I know several butch women who have talked about transition spreading through friend groups formerly composed exclusively of women who knew themselves as butch lesbians. Here’s something else about suicide contagion: there are community responses that can mitigate its impact. In terms of suicide, the focus is fully on prevention. This isn’t directly analogous to transition; I don’t think the focus should truly be to prevent transition. For one thing, this would imply a lack of support for those who have already transitioned, a group I’m visibly a part of. As long as transition is available, some of us will choose it, and that doesn’t mean they’re any less human or deserving of support. Withdrawing support upon transition also makes it less likely for individuals to feel that stopping transition is an option. However, I do feel that efforts should be made to communicate that transition is not the only option when it comes to coping with a drive to transition. This isn’t common knowledge. Support for women coping with rejection related to gender noncompliance, alienation from their bodies, distress at being seen as female, and other experiences often coded as inherently trans should be widely available, whether or not those experiences are a part of a trans identity for the individual suffering. These are female experiences and should be decoupled from transition narratives to a higher degree, while still allowing trans individuals to recognize them as a part of their stories. Resources on all of the different ways different individuals have managed to handle what would be diagnosed as GID or gender dysphoria, without further reliance on medical intervention, should be broadly available, especially in communities where a reduction of social restraints on transition has taken place. If transition is supposed to be a choice, there have got to be other options. Doing something because you believe it’s the only way to avoid eventually killing yourself isn’t really the same as making a free choice. Whether it helps you or not, medical transition exposes you to a shit ton of risk. There are lower risk options that, for many of us, worked an awful lot better. Would point clusters of transition occur with the same frequency if sensitive, unbiased support systems that acknowledged these feelings do not inherently necessitate transition, were made available to those struggling? Would mass clusters? I don’t know for sure. It’s worth noting that, in the year I’ve spent in detransition/reconciling community, I’ve never seen a bunch of us return to a trans identity at once. This has been true (as far as I’ve seen) even though some individuals do return to transition, and everyone in these circles has previously considered herself trans in some way. I believe our resilience to intercommunity transition spikes is heightened in this community because, by virtue of being connected to each other, we can freely process the way it makes us feel when someone we feel we have a lot in common with returns to a coping mechanism that we know has done us harm. Naming our feelings and working with each other to identify ways to move forward probably makes us less likely to rely on objectively higher-risk strategies. This is not something that many women have, but I feel that it’s something all women deserve (to the extent that they can participate without harming others). We can’t find out if anyone would choose transition freely until everyone knows it’s not their only option. Uncategorized relevance of suicide contagion Discussion of the rise in transition rates being potentially caused by social contagion (usually discussed as spreading through social media) often neglects to address what has rendered so many young people vulnerable to it. When transition possibly caused by social contagion is brought up without explicitly acknowledging that only certain individuals are likely to be susceptible to seek transition after online exposure to trans community, I feel like the uninitiated are likely to assume this is some kind of fad, like when everybody in 6th grade made a Club Penguin account. It’s not. Yeah, I read a lot of fuckyeahftms.tumblr.com before I came out, and I’m not going to say that kind of thing had no impact on me. Still, I really doubt I would have given much of a shit (or spent so much time on those sites) if it weren’t for the people on that blog looking more like me than anyone at my school, if it weren’t for them describing their dysphoria in language that very much resonated with me, if I hadn’t been looking for some kind of “out” all my life, etc etc. We all have different stories about how we got here, but none of them (that I’ve heard, at least) are actually as simple as “I saw it on the internet”, even if immersing ourselves in internet subcultures that glorify transition was one factor. This implication is alienating as hell to people who never had their emotional problems validated until they described them using the language of transition.  From the Wikipedia article on behavioral contagion:    Behavioral contagion is a result of the reduction of fear or restraints – aspects of a group or situation which prevent certain behaviors from being performed.[2] Restraints are typically group-derived, meaning that the “observer”, the individual wishing to perform a certain behavior, is constrained by the fear of rejection by the group, who would view this behavior as a “lack of impulse control”.[2] An individual (the “observer”) wants to perform some behavior, but that behavior would violate the unspoken and accepted rules of the group or situation they are in; these rules are the restraints preventing the observer from performing that action. Once the restraints are broken or reduced the observer is then “free” to perform the behavior his- or herself; this is achieved by the “intervention” of the model. The model is another individual, in the same group or situation as the observer, who performs the behavior which the observer wished to perform.[2] Stephenson and Fielding (1971) describe this effect as “[Once] one member of a gathering has performed a commonly desired action, the payoffs for similar action or nonaction are materially altered. … [The] initiator, by his action, establishes an inequitable advantage over the other members of the gathering which they may proceed to nullify by following his example. ”[1]   This rings true for me. When I first learned transition existed, when I was around 13, I was really intrigued, but never considered it as a possibility for myself- the cost was too high. These were people I only saw on daytime talk shows when I stayed home sick, getting called really horrible names and treated as spectacles. Over the next few years, as I gradually learned more about transition and got to know more individuals who were transitioning online, I felt less and less like transitioning would make me a freak or totally alone. By the time I was around 16, the cost/benefit equation had shifted considerably in my eyes, enough for me to start pursuing transition.  In a way, it’s a good thing that I didn’t judge myself as harshly for having a drive to transition. I don’t think people who want to transition, or who do transition, should feel like they’re disgusting freaks for it, the way I used to. And of course, not transitioning alone wouldn’t have resolved any of the trauma or pervasive lifelong gendered rejection that made me want to escape femaleness. It’s not like I would be totally fine if I had just managed to avoid one maladaptive coping mechanism. Given that no healthier options were made accessible to me, I was going to keep trying self-preservation strategies with high costs, transition or no transition. I might have had more serious alcohol issues, thrown myself into casual sex, whatever. Something was gonna have to give. So… social contagion, as it’s generally understood (to my knowledge; I’m no expert) doesn’t create new aspirations out of thin air. It reduces inhibitions that prevent someone from doing something they kinda wanted to do in the first place, or would once somebody else told them about it. If your kid asked for hormones after spending 3 days straight on FTM Youtube, bad news- blaming the internet is an overly simplistic explanation that erases the complexity of their inner life. Succeeding in blocking them from transition alone will not resolve any of the underlying feelings that motivated them to seek it.      The way this model of social contagion can apply to maladaptive coping mechanisms is really striking. At my middle school, a ton of the girls (me included) started cutting one after another. Were we cutting to be cool? Was it the same as the way those fucking save the boobies bracelets spread? No. All of us were still humiliated if anyone saw our cuts, even other girls who were cutting. It felt like shit. It definitely did not help us when people talked about how all the girls were cutting lately as if it was like any other trend. We all had our own reasons for doing it. When I went to my little sister’s graduation from a fancy charter school this year, I was really surprised that so many of her classmates were trans. I was the only person who transitioned at my high school several years ago, and I went on independent study to do it. Almost nobody even knew why I wasn’t in class anymore. So why are there so many trans teenagers at this school? Are my sister’s classmates “faking it”? I doubt it. The most likely explanation to me seems like, since the social costs are lower, the strategy of transitioning to cope with certain feelings is being used more widely.  Nobody goes through all this trouble just because they saw it online, at least nobody I know, and an awful lot of women in my life have sought transition at one time or another. Everyone has their own reasons. For me, some of the big ones were gendered rejection, sexual trauma, difficult dynamics at home, being entirely isolated from lesbian (especially butch lesbian) role models and community, seeing boys with similarly ADD-looking issues treated with much more understanding than I ever was, stuff like that. I needed help finding a healthy lesbian community, resources for coping with being female and ADD, and support learning to live with sexual trauma. Just locking up my laptop wouldn’t have helped me get those needs met. All it would have done is change the direction of my self-destructive shitspiral- for a while, at least. Basically, I would like to see more care taken in these discussions. Uncategorized social contagion Originally posted on crashchaoscats: Hey Julia, My name is Crash and I‭’‬m a detransitioned woman.‭ ‬I blog about how and why I came to transition and then detransition at crashchaoscats.wordpress.com and at crashchaoscats.tumblr.com.‭ ‬I‭’‬ve been talking to,‭ ‬hanging out and organizing with other detransitioned women for around three years now.‭ ‬In that time I have… via An Open Letter to Julia Serano from One of the‭ ‬Detransitioned People You‭ ‬Claim to‭ ‬“Support‭” — There Are So Many Things Wrong With This Uncategorized An Open Letter to Julia Serano from One of the‭ ‬Detransitioned People You‭ ‬Claim to‭ ‬“Support‭” — There Are So Many Things Wrong With This Hey, um, so… a lot of different feelings. I wanted to talk a little bit about how I experienced passing, as a man- and I mean I still experience it, you know, because people, people don’t really know what to make of this… um… at first, I started passing about six months or so after I got my mastectomy, because I got a round little face. And it took a long time for my voice to even drop as much as I did, I had, uh, I was pretty shrill… um… so, when I first started passing, it was pretty cool, uh, it was really cool. I felt like I was becoming this new person who could have an easier life. I felt like I was re-creating myself, I was… I don’t know, um, I felt like I was being seen. And… the longer it went, the less I felt like that. The more time I spent with men thinking I was men, being treated the way men treat other men, and women treating me the way they treat men… it was intensely distressing. It did not feel like I was being seen. Once I realized what other people meant when they saw me that way, and what that meant to them, whether or not they would have defined it the way I did or even noticed they were treating me differently… it’s a lot. Like, I, I’ve done… I work in group homes, I’ve done work in group homes for a while, and when I was a man- “when I was a man”! I mean, I wasn’t ever a man. But when people thought I was a man, they expected me to clean so much less. People were so much nicer to me. You know, I’m, kind of mental health-wise, I’m kind of a shitshow. Um, and, um, people were so much more patient about attention deficit stuff, like about needing help, needing them to explain things, and go over stuff when I screwed stuff up… people were so much more patient with me. When I was like, kind of nervous socially, people would go out of their way to try and make me feel comfortable, in a way that I had never experienced before, you know, in my life as a woman who looked like a lesbian. And, um, going back… I mean, it’s, you know, people treat me differently again. People, I… you know, I told my coworkers. I made them transfer me sites and everything, I told… my supervisor and everybody, that, you know… “woman all along”… I goofed…and so, now I’m back to working in an environment where everyone knows I’m a woman. And the expectations are higher again, you know, people want me to clean more, people are passive aggressive when I forget to clean, you know, it’s different, you know? And group homes are kind of interesting, the ones I work in, because it’s kind of… obviously it’s very different, but in some ways it’s kind of similar to a family environment, in that there’s a lot of like, domestic labor, and like, emotional labor, are big things, that you’re helping these people with their problems and talking to them. And like, the expectations on me in this environment, are wildly different when people think I’m a man versus when I’m not. People expect so much more emotional work from me, and like, support for people emotionally from me… the people I support too, expect more from me when they think I’m a woman than when I’m a man. Um… yeah, it’s just a trip. And you know, women are scared of you, the way they’re scared of men. And that makes to be scared of men, and it make sense to be scared of me when you think I’m a man, but shit… I guess, I don’t know. Part of transitioning for me was- I mean, I don’t know if it was part of transitioning exactly. But… I don’t know. Part of being a lesbian to me, and I think for other lesbians but especially if you look, you look more butch, is… this fear of being like a man, of being scary, of being predatory, of being dangerous. And having other people reinforce to me that I was a man, and reinforced to myself that I was a man, and have it reinforced to me that it’s correct when other people treat me like a man… that did not do me any favors. Um… because I’m not, that’s not the reality, it’s just not true. There was a time when I wanted that to be true, and… even then, it wasn’t true, I’m not, I’m not a man. Um… and, you know, as intensely as passing felt like being seen at first, is exactly how intensely I feel erased now. I, it’s, I don’t know. I mean, I felt like I was doing the right thing, and even like, a couple months before I stopped transitioning, I would have told you, you know, this is who I am, I can’t help it. Um… but, obviously that didn’t play out. So yeah. Um… I guess just… feel like I haven’t seen enough… you know, it’s obviously really hard to talk about, but I haven’t seen a lot of conversation about how difficult passing can be emotionally, for someone who hasn’t grown up as a man, who hasn’t been taught that they deserve to be given all of the things men are given at the expense of women. Um… it just, it’s just, it’s just like fingers in the wound, of like, you know, you do not deserve… this is not, this is not for you. This is for men. It just feels like… I don’t know, it just reminds me, it just reminded me… you know, that… that wasn’t how people saw me, that wasn’t what, deep down, these people would think of me, if they knew I was female. They would not think, that, you know, that I deserved all this help. I was getting this nice treatment because they thought I was someone I was not. And you know, I couldn’t talk about my childhood? You know, I’d tell… I have sisters, I have all these stories about my sisters, and it’s really hard to talk about your relationship with your sisters, when everyone thinks you’re a man, you know, you can’t talk about Girl Scouts, you know, there’s so much shit, there’s just so much shit. Couldn’t talk- the only girl on cross country, I couldn’t talk about being the only girl on cross country, there’s just all these parts of my life, that, you know, you can’t just… you know, it’s not like a video game, you can’t just change the gender, change the pronouns, and the story stays intact. Nothing makes any- it doesn’t, it doesn’t work anymore. I can’t just… I don’t know. I don’t know. Um… yeah. And I mean, I still get, I still get read as male all the time now. But it’s different, um, now that I can… now that I’m not so dependent on other people to see me. Now that I know what I am, regardless of what someone else sees or doesn’t see. Having some stability in my self-concept, like, makes a huge difference. I don’t, you know, I don’t… obviously I am “misgendered”, you know, people call me a man all the fucking time, you know, I go to the store, whatever. Um… but… it doesn’t change what I know about myself, it doesn’t shake me in the same way. It sets off… it makes me kind of, you know, makes me have to think about, and do some more processing, do some feelings work, about old feelings, of what it felt like to pass, while I believed that made me a man inside, and this was a true and honest reflection of myself, um… but… it doesn’t… it doesn’t get to me in the same way anymore, um, that it used to, because I know what I am. I don’t know, it’s just kind of a weird, it’s a weird thing. Because obviously before transition, I didn’t like female pronouns, whatever…whoo… um, but yeah, I mean, I hated she pronouns, I was all fussed about that. I was very worked up about that. And that was about what they represented to me. The same way male pronouns distressing me now, or I mean, distressing me sometimes now, is about what they represent to me now. Um, my distaste for female pronouns was about what I thought they meant, and the ideas that I had heard and been told over and over again, and that I believed, and did not question, about what it meant to be a woman, and that that was something that could not include me. Which I mean, you know, fair enough. Makes sense that I thought that. I really hadn’t encountered communities where a woman could be like me, where that wasn’t, you know, where I hadn’t spent time anywhere, where, you know,  I wasn’t kind of a freak show. And… I don’t know. Getting to spend time in female space now, with, especially… the two times I’ve gone to female, uh, events, were events that had a bunch of other, detransitioned and reconciling women, like women who had stopped transition before or after taking medical steps, um… being around those ladies and getting to talk to everybody and be together, and not be, you know, not be such a fucking freak… made a huge difference. This is kind of a sidebar, I was trying to talk about how it’s not fun to get seen as a man. But yeah, um… kind of looped the hell around. It used-for a while, I couldn’t stand either, I didn’t know what the fuck I was gonna do, you know, “nonbinary”, so to speak. But it really just turned out that I needed to do more, do more thinking… with my girlfriend who also used, she used it pronouns, for years… we love each other. We were both trans when we met. But yeah, we just had to do more thinking and processing, and, you know, feelings work about what those pronouns meant to us. So yeah, uh, those are my thoughts… later. Uncategorized Passing & Pronouns So I guess something I wanted to talk about a little more, that I’ve been thinking about a lot lately, um, I guess, in terms of reality checks about what, what surgery might end up being like. Um… nerve damage. That’s not fun. It really did not seem like that big of a deal to me, when I was, um, looking into surgery, I read all my side effects, signed all my papers, went to the doctor… I did everything right, everyone told me what was what gonna happen. Um, but, if you don’t have, like, nerve damage… I mean any medical thing, anything you haven’t experienced yet, you don’t really know what it’s like. But specifically right now, I’m talking about like… if you don’t have nerve damage, you don’t really know what that’s like, you don’t know what you’re signing up for. Um… it’s pretty distressing to have an area of your body where you  used to feel something… feel dead. I mean, it feels the same as like… when your mouth is numb. Sometimes. Sometimes it hurts like hell. And that’s the other thing is it’s like, it’s all over the place? Um, it’s really really weird to go from having normal sensation on a part of your body, to be, you know, drugged to sleep and wake up, and then going forward, for years going forward, you have no sensation, or pain, or no sensation mixed with pain, or like dead and pain, it’s just, it’s crazy! It’s really hard to describe. In terms of like what sensation feels like, nerve damage kind of feels like it’s like, off the sensation spectrum, like it’s not really a kind of feeling I had considered existed before. Um, and you know… when I was with someone else who was trans, who I felt really comfortable with, who was getting a mastectomy, like, my chest was able- I was able to experience my chest as a part of our like, you know, intimacy together. A lot of other things went wrong in that relationship, but I did experience my chest, as a a part of my sexuality. And that’s very weird, to go from having something… potentially, with the right person you feel really really comfortable with, in terms of those issues, be a part of my sexuality, versus feeling dead, it feels dead, or painful. Um… so yeah, and you know, I thought anything was better than what I had. But you know, I wasn’t super realistic about how top surgery turns out when you’re not, you know, the “right” size. My surgeon… my surgeon told me, the same as if someone was much smaller than me- or you know, whatever- if someone was- the “right” size for a surgery like this. Um… I really, I really didn’t know what that would mean. Not that I think I’d feel any better about my chest, if it looked super symmetrical and everything. I don’t think that I would. But I mean, it does kind of strike me that, you know, I wasn’t expecting this, even though by any reasonable measure, I should have been. I’d seen pictures of people who had had surgery with, you know, I’d like, like, 32DDs, and I wasn’t super really thin, you know, kind of… regular. So… I don’t know. I think that’s another element that demonstrates kind of how, you can go into this and sign everything and say all the right words, and not really have it be real to you, what the actual results might be. And my nipples- whew! Oh my goodness. Yikes! Um… they still look like scar tissue, it’s been like three years, and they still are like… you know they’re not really perfectly round, they’re kind of…tore up, you know, they kind of look… I don’t know. They don’t look… nothing looks the way I thought it would. And I didn’t have any real good reason to think it would look that way, either, I was just, you know, I wasn’t being realistic with myself. I would say all the right words, but inside, I wasn’t really realistic with myself. And you know, nipple sensation. Whew! You know, that’s… I don’t think that’s coming back. Um, I have almost no feeling and what I do have is pain, and it feels, it just feels nasty, it feels crazy. And it just brings up, you know, all the other feelings about my chest. Um… like you know, there’s little pockets on the front of your shirt? When I’m wearing TWO shirts, I love putting shit in my front pocket. Super convenient. I work at a job where there’s a bunch of keys, so I can keep my keys in the front pocket. Uh… keep my phone in the front pocket. And then summer comes and I’m wearing one shirt, and I put, and I try to put something in the front pocket on my tshirt, and it’s like oh shit, because it’s like on my nipple, and it just feels horrible. So then every time I go to put my phone away, I’m like- I’m attention deficit, real attention deficit, and so I just forget all fucking day. So I’m constantly being reminded that you know, you can’t use the front pocket of your shirt, or else you’ll have to think about your fucking chest all day. Um… yeah… um, you know… it’s not symmnetrical. I’m off testosterone now, I have been for like a year, and tissue’s kind of coming back there a little bit, you know, because whenever- it doesn’t generally come back until your weight starts shifting around, but I guess mine is now, a little bit, because my chest has a little bit more, like, breast kind of tissue, and then… um… and it’s super weird, because the new tissue has normal feeling, but the old tissue doesn’t… like, a lot of it is still nerve damage-y… I don’t know it’s just! It’s crazy! I don’t know how to describe nerve damage. Super weird though. And if you know, it turns out that this isn’t something you have… easy feelings about, nerve damage sure as shit doesn’t help with that, damn! It so super does not help! Um… so yeah, I guess, just wanted to talk about that, basically. Um… just wanted to talk about how things can turn out, because this is a reality, is that, there was nothing before I transitioned that would have clearly distinguished me from anyone else. That’s, I mean, my gender therapist is, was experienced, and had a lot of, you know, had a lot of experience with this stuff, with a lot of people, and we’ve talked about how this all turned out for me. I don’t see a gender therapist anymore, whoo, I don’t see any therapist, damn, hoo. Um… but I email with my gender therapist, and we talk about this, and I don’t think my gender therapist knew this was something that could happen to me, either, I don’t think anyone knew. And that’s kind of the problem. I mean, at the very least, people should be aware that this is how it can turn out, that you can end up- years into it, years into it, you can realize… hey, um… I’m a fucking lesbian, and I really fucked up. And now, you know, I have to live with that. And that’s, this is where, you know- and there’s, you know, there’s ways to move forward from it, there’s talking about your feelings, there’s connecting with other people, there’s plenty of things you can do, but… I would not wish this on anyone. It would have been a LOT easier to not have that surgery. I really would have done myself some favors with THAT. Um… so yeah. Um… well, bye. Uncategorized Nerve Damage So after watching Maria Catt’s video and Kat’s video I decided to make one too… ended up making three. I’m prolific! Here’s the first one.  Hey! Um, I’m Max, um, so I watched Maria Catt’s video, and she’s great, wish her the best, um, and, she talked about, mentioned that people have a lot of feelings about having mastectomies, and, I myself am someone with a lot of feelings about having a mastectomy, and I know that there’s a lot of stuff out there that talks about how great it is, and I made stuff like that, when I thought mine was really great, and when I thought this had gone really good. Um, so I just kind of wanted to talk about my experiences with that. Um, initially what I wanted to do was film this somewhere pretty, because it’s not really a pretty conversation, but um, it’s kind of windy, so instead I’m doing it in my dusty shed. So yeah. I wanted surgery initially- I mean I started wanting surgery when I started wanting to transition. I, I thought it would help, basically. I was uncomfortable with my chest in a really profound way. I really did not like looking at myself or thinking about what I looked like. I REALLY did not like other people looking at me or thinking about what I looked like. I thought that top surgery would help, I guess, is kind of, the main reason why I did that. I kept thinking that for years afterwards, for three years. I thought it had helped. And kind of… you know, the reality of that was, that what it helped me do was think about my chest less, because there was nothing there. When you’ve got a flat chest, there’s not as many logistical concerns that you need to address, so it’s easier minute-to-minute, to not think about my chest. Um, it did NOT make me more comfortable with what was there. Even immediately after surgery, I was pretty horrified by what it looked like. Um, and you know, that’s the reality of surgery, is that it’s kind of gross to look at. Um, but I had assumed it would be worth it, and I kept talking myself into that, um, narrative, that I was becoming who I needed to be, that I had been born wrong, and that there was this other person that I could become, who would have an easier life, who could be happy. So yeah, trying to get back on track here, got a little notebook. So yeah, when I went in for surgery, I thought it was going to be really great. I was really excited, this was what I wanted. I asked my surgeon the day of, when he was marking on my chest with marker, um, I asked where the tissue would go. I wanted to know if it was like Fight Club, in a trash can and shit. He said no, it got incinerated, and I was like yeah, I’m right. Um, and, everyone was really nice to me, everyone was really nice to me. When we got to the operating room, I was surprised by the kind of dentist-looking chair they had there, I thought it would be a big flat silver table, and I expressed that to Dr Crane, Curtis Crane in San Francisco, and he was like what, it’s not a morgue. And I was like haha… I thought this whole thing was all very funny. I was excited to experience going under anesthesia. And looking back, that is not how I feel. It is terrifying to me that that’s how I felt at the time, because to me that speaks to how disconnected I was, from my body, and how little I cared about what happened to me. And you know, this was a time in my life when I was regularly having intense suicidal ideation, and transition felt like an alternative to that. Like, I wanted to die- I never actually- you know, I wanted to die, but the reason I wanted to die was because I didn’t think I could have a better life. So with the prospect of transition, I thought, hey, this is a way to have a better life, and not, um, kill myself, so you know, I was down for that. And I think that was a lot of what- was a part of why, I was up for something as intense as surgery. So for a few years after my surgery, like I said, I was cool with it, in that I didn’t have anything negative to say about it. I didn’t look at my chest much, I didn’t think about my chest much. It was easier to detach myself from the way I had felt about my chest then, and from the way I felt about my chest now, which, whoo, I was not ready for that. I would occasionally- you know, I would have thoughts and feelings about distress, with surgery, and confusion, and a lot of complicated feelings about my chest, but I wouldn’t engage with them, I wouldn’t think about it. I tried really hard not to think about it. And actually, it was months after I had decided to stop transitioning at all, it was months after I had gone off testosterone, that I felt really able to say that this surgery was something I regreted, this wasn’t something I wanted to do, this wasn’t the way I wanted to live. And I feel, I think that the framework of grief is really relevant here. And you know, the way stages of grief work isn’t that you go through them in perfect order. How it works is that you kind of move around through them and sometimes you’re spending more time in one or the other. And I mean, before people start engaging in that process, a lot of times where they are is denial. And that’s, that’s very understandable, this is a lot of fucking feelings to have. It’s really fucking intense. I don’t think it’s wrong not to want to talk about this. But yeah. I spent a lot of time- I mean, three years, guess it could have been longer, but it felt like a long time- um, trying to convince myself that what happened was okay. And it’s not, it’s not. I don’t feel okay. I don’t feel like what happened was okay at all. Um, I feel, like… it… I tried talking about this with like, people who aren’t very familiar with the very specific kind of issues that are relevant here. Um… and a friend of mine told me that what I was talking about sounded like I should look into, like, losing a child? It feels, I mean, it’s a loss. It feels like, it feels like I killed a part of me on purpose, because I blamed that part of me, for the mistreatment that was attracted by my chest. You know, I feel like I was blaming my chest for, the way I was treated- I put a LOT on that part of my body, and I felt that, by removing my breasts, I could remove those feelings. That you know, I could amputate, my uh, my fucking feelings. And unfortunately, you know, it would be super convenient if that was the case, I would so super love if that was true. For me it was not, it was not true at all. So… so… I mean I got all the feelings that led me here in the first place, that led me to transition and surgery, those feelings are still there. They’re not gone, they’re not better at all. And now I’ve got all the extra shit that transitioning added. You know, for me right now, especially surgery is kind of what’s big for me. Yeah, I guess I just wanted to talk about that, that this doesn’t always turn out well, and I think it’s important to be realistic about that, that this may not go well, this may not be something you feel good about in three years. Even if you feel good in one year, even if you feel good in two years. I mean, I would have told anyone that I was having a great fucking time, I would say yeah this isn’t something I regret, this is so awesome, I would argue with people about it, you know? I wasn’t different until I was. And a lot of that is that I’m in a place now, you know, I’m in a good relationship, I have a stable house environment, I have support online from other women of these experiences. I’m in a place where I can, where I’m safe enough to start unpacking these feelings. I mean, if I was still… if I wasn’t with my girlfriend, you know? If I had been alone, and as isolated from lesbian community as we are right now, and as I have been for the last few years, um… I don’t think I would have figured this stuff out myself. I would have kept saying my surgery is a great fucking decision, I would have felt stuffing my feelings down, and having other problems because of that. I mean… I drank a lot more, I smoked a lot more, when I was trying not to deal with those feelings. Actually, I… I think around six months after I had surgery, I had- eight months after? I had like, a psychotic break, I lost it. You know, I thought, aliens were after me, and stuff. So you know, stuffing that shit down didn’t really do me any favors, but you know, it did feel like my only option for a long time. So basically yeah, just… this wasn’t very organized. I wrote a bunch of really good notes and then I just kind of… departed, departed from that. But yeah. Basically… it’s important to be realistic about how this might go. And you know… if you haven’t had surgery yet, and you’re idealizing it, I think it’s important to seek out reality checks, in terms of how this might go. I… this did not go well for me. I feel like I lost a part of my body and like I lost the chance to do the really intense and challenging, but ultimately worthwhile, emotional work of figuring out how to live with my body, the way it was. And now that’s gone. And what I have- the work that I can do is, figuring out how to live with a body that is permanently marked by my desire to destroy it. You know, I, I have permanently made a part of my body, my hatred of it. And you know, I was into self-harm before, that’s not new exactly, but it’s kind of another level, it feels like, to me, in terms of my own relationship to cutting or burning myself, versus my chest being so different. It’s a lot. Um, and if, if this is something that you’ve already done, and you’re having complicated feelings about it, um, regardless of whether you’re intending to transition or whatever, we can talk about that. It’s, it’s a lot to be alone with it. You don’t have to, you know, we all make our own choices. There’s no pressure to, for you to deal with this the same way that I have. If you’re feeling alone with this and want to talk about it, hit me up. Uncategorized Masectomy Feelings Am I still trans, regardless of how I choose to describe myself? I get this online and in real life. People who are familiar with transition as a concept have a hard time understanding how someone could look butch with a visible history of medical transition and still acknowledge herself as a woman. On the other hand, those with less awareness of transition accept pretty readily that I’m an unusual-looking woman, whether they like it or not. Anyway… when these more socially aware coworkers or friends ask me if I’m transitioning to become a man, this is generally a question intended to be sensitive and considerate. I reiterate what I’ve generally already stated pretty clearly: I’m a woman. Then they tell me about each individual trans person they’ve met and I nod politely. This interaction sometimes happens more than once with the same person. Online, it tends to be less a question and more an accusation- i.e., “such a repressed trans man lol”, etc. This comes off as a reflexive dismissal that a woman could ever look like me, or live my life. Interestingly enough, online this tends to come from people who would generally tell you that trans people are exactly the gender they identify as. I guess that self-determination ends when you start telling people you’re not trans anymore. With both people in town and strangers online, it seems like my identification with my femaleness is mainly in question because of how I look. If I made efforts to hide the physical evidence of my history of transition, or my disinterest in assimilating with mainstream cultural expectations of womanhood, I’m pretty sure I’d hear this specific dismissal less often. Not that my descriptions of my own life would get more respect if this was the case- they so wouldn’t. But I think the strategy for proving my voice doesn’t matter might shift. “You were never trans” attempts to exclude me from my own experiences with transition. “You’re still trans” attempts to exclude me from my sex. People who feel threatened by the perspectives of detransitioned women often seem to make strategic choices about how to attack an individual woman’s credibility in a given situation. It’s all very political  Accusing a butch lesbian of wanting to be something other than a woman is a statement with a lot of baggage. Historical accounts include anecdotes of homophobes saying really similar shit, decades and decades ago. Then, like now, it demonstrated the speaker’s narrow ideas about how women should behave and cast any variation as pathological. And just to be clear: I don’t want to be a man (or a nonbinary person!), not anymore, because I no longer hate being a woman. I used to, largely because I equated my own femaleness with the beliefs others expressed about what womanhood meant, beliefs I internalized in complex ways that are difficult to untangle. I saw women abused by men, over and over, and I blamed my own body for the way men’s actions harmed me. I believed transition would resolve the intense disconnect/hatred for my own sex and general dysfunctionality I felt. I thought I looked and acted the way I did because I was a man, and being mistaken for a dyke was humiliating. That’s not the case now. Now, I understand my complicated feelings towards my physical self as an understandable reaction to living in a fucked up world, and I place the blame where it belongs: with men. I tried transition and saw that it did not fix me, because my body was never the problem. I still have really intense, challenging feelings about being female because I still live in a fucked up world and have a brain impacted by past trauma. I can handle those feelings by talking it out with other women, reading about others who have been through similar stuff, exercising, spending time with animals, connecting with nature, meditating, journaling, or using other tools. I see the way I have always preferred to dress and act not as an expression of an innately not-woman identity, but as an aspect of how I, personally, responded to the enormous pressure put on women to look some specific way or another; I see it as part of my innately female self. I am no longer ashamed to have my similarities with other lesbians, including other butch lesbians, recognized. I value my connections to the trans community; I will always be visually identifiable as someone who once understood myself as a part of it. I will continue to encounter people who don’t believe me when I say I’m not trans. That doesn’t make me any less a woman. What happened to me happens to women. I know, because I’m a woman, and it happened to me. These are conclusions I came to about my own life as a result of applying feminist consciousness raising principles in interactions with other women with a history of transition. They are just as organic as the conclusions I came to about my own life when I applied what I had learned through transgender community, if not more so- there’s a much wider diversity of opinions in my current circles than my old ones, and an awful lot less policing of each other. I was encouraged by transgender community to be open to changes in how I understood my relationship with gender when I went from not knowing I was trans, because I’d never heard of it, to knowing I was trans, because the new information I had changed how I understood my feelings about my body and social role. The same people who strongly encourage that type of questioning are often the ones who are outraged by women like me, who continue to question, and who eventually find some ideas that work better for us than a lot of trans ideology did. Uncategorized am i still trans? (This is a response to this article; I’m reposting it here because their comment box doesn’t allow line breaks, so this way I can post a link to it for anyone else who absolutely cannot read that many words with no lines in between.) “Where are the people who switched pronouns at 10, switched pronouns again at 25, and found the experience traumatizing? Where are the people who received unneeded medical interventions and were permanently, or temporarily, harmed?” I transitioned FTM at 16, was on testosterone and had a double mastectomy by 17. I’m 20 now and back to understanding myself as a lesbian, like I was before I found out about transition and latched onto it as a way to “fix” body issues created by the challenges of growing up in a deeply misogynistic and lesbian-hating world. I don’t know if he’s ever planning on using the interview directly but I’ve spoken to Singal at length about what happened to me and I know at least one other woman who transitioned underage and talked to him, too, so he knows women who went through this are out there. He is not speaking in the hypothetical. I absolutely am traumatized by what happened to me, and I’m not the only one. I’m a part of support networks for women who stopped transition that have over 100 members, and that’s just the individuals who have gone looking for others with this experience and found us. I’ve met more than a dozen of these ladies in person at different times… we’re definitely real. If you’re interested in learning more about this experience, here’s a publication by some of these women (not focused specifically on pediatric transition although I believe at least one contributor did transition underage). http://www.greenwomanstore.com/blood-and-visions.html Plenty of others who transition, whether they continue or not, live with complicated feelings about what happened. Not all of us name those experiences the same way, search for community to process that pain, or ever “go public” to any degree. This is trauma. Hormone therapy really wasn’t that safe, in my experience. I remember being 17 and watching my pediatric endocrinologist literally Google dosing information right in front of me. Didn’t inspire confidence. The doctors controlling my HRT had no idea what they were doing, at least with patients like me. They were all just as confused about how to treat me medically as they were about how to interact with me as a human being. When I was on testosterone and taking Adderal for ADD, I got heart palpitations, chest pain, and shortness of breath. I didn’t tell anyone because I didn’t want to have to choose between a psych med that was making a huge difference in my ability to function in the workplace and hormone therapy, and I didn’t want to acknowledge that what I was doing was dangerous. Early in my transition, I went through menopause. This caused vaginal atrophy and drip incontinence that has persisted for years. I piss myself slowly all day now; it’s really not cute or fun. I refused to acknowledge it was connected to the HRT-caused vaginal atrophy that immediately preceded its onset until months after going off testosterone. Yeah, I signed a paper saying I knew that could happen. I also thought this treatment was my only hope for coping with the intense feelings of alienation/disgust with my femaleness. I was wrong. Transition didn’t help. It did harm, harm that I now have to learn how to live with on top of all the shit I thought transition would fix. I know plenty of others who had a wide range of even more concerning side effects on testosterone, and many of us didn’t ever say a word about these health problems until we were “desisting”. Nobody wants to be told they need to go off it; many of us are willing to lie or risk our health in order to stay on testosterone. My double mastectomy was severely traumatizing. I paid a guy, a guy who does this every day for cash, to drug me to sleep and cut away healthy tissue. I did this because I believed it would heal all of the emotional issues I was blaming on my female body. It didn’t work. Now I’m still all fucked up and I’m missing body parts, too. There is no surgery that will undo what’s been done… adding synthetic materials to resemble the tissue of mine that was incinerated years ago would not help me. It took 3 years of stuffing down every negative feeling about my mastectomy before I was ready to face that what happened did harm to me. I was off hormones for months before I admitted to myself that I deeply, deeply regretted this surgery. The best way I can think of describing the loss is like, killing a family member who I blamed for being a burden on me, and then realizing years later that the blame I put on them was extremely and tragically misplaced. It was not their fault, but they’re gone now anyway, because I wanted them gone. I have lost my breasts and I have lost the chance to reconcile with my breasts. It wouldn’t be easy, but it would be work worth doing. Now the work before me instead is reconciling with what I’ve done and with the chest I have now- flat, scarred, assymmetrical, and nerve-damaged. “The social pressure on cis people to become trans, on the other hand, does not exist. Singal says his goal is to help children. But who is helped by ginning up fears of amorphous harms done to vaguely defined victims?” I think the victims are defined pretty clearly: those who ultimately end up feeling that transition did them harm. It would have helped me to have not been subjected to this shit, so yeah, I appreciate writing that acknowledges women like me exist. The framework of cis vs trans is extremely limited- which do you think I am? Am I cis, because I was born female and describe myself as a woman? Funny, because my driver’s license still says Maxwell, and it still says male. My chest is flat, I grow a beard that I don’t usually shave. So does that make me trans? This dichotomy leaves no room for women who experience severe alienation from their femaleness but still choose to claim it, and it leaves no room for women who claim their femaleness after transition has transformed their material circumstances. Please don’t give me the “you’re nonbinary” gotcha, either… I’m not. I’m a woman. This happens to women. I know it would be a lot easier for a lot of people if I would just lie about what I am, but I’m done convincing myself to believe convenient lies about me that deep down, I recognize as false. I invested so much in this idea that, by making myself superficially distinct from other women, I could erase the harm done to me because of my femaleness. That lie gave me hope, but it’s just not true. I have an awful lot more in common with butch lesbians who never transitioned than with anyone born male. “Singal’s article is less a call to help children, and more a confused reaffirmation of stereotypes about queer people seductively converting straights.” Really? Is it? I went from being a lesbian who was seen as a lesbian to being a lesbian who was seen as a man, after a string of heterosexual doctors did a bunch of shit to my body. Who’s trying to convert who? I started dating my girlfriend when I was already living stealth at school and in public. We were never seen as a lesbian couple until this year, and even now, I’m not usually recognized as female. Yes, I asked for the treatments I got, I pushed for them hard. I did that because I genuinely had no idea that a woman could feel the way I felt. I didn’t know a woman could hate her breasts, could hate the way she was treated, could hate her own femaleness. I didn’t have enough empathy for women under patriarchy, including myself, to realize that these feelings were an entirely reasonable response to all of the horrible shit that had already happened to me by the time I was 16 and begging to be put on hormones. Pediatric medical transition is a relatively new phenomenon, and it takes a while to get to a place with your trauma where you’re comfortable going public. Give it a few years and there will be an awful lot more of us. I wish this wasn’t the case. I wish you were right, that this treatment wasn’t doing harm, that all of these children were going to grow up and be just fine. I wish that I was just fine. I’m not, this destroyed me in a lot of ways. I will never be the same. Transitioning does require courage, but so does recognizing that transition has done you far more harm than good. Disagree all you want but try to remember that you’re talking about my trauma and the trauma of others like me; the least you can do is acknowledge that we exist. This is not Triton. What happened to us was not painless. It makes sense that I’m concerned about these treatments that did me so much harm as a teenager becoming increasingly available to children. Uncategorized Response to “Fear of a Trans Planet” From lifehack.com, lol: In economics, a sunk cost is any past cost that has already been paid and cannot be recovered. For example, a business may have invested a million dollars into new hardware. This money is now gone and cannot be recovered, so it shouldn’t figure into the business’s decision making process. Or, let’s say you buy tickets to a concert. On the day of the event, you catch a cold. Even though you are sick, you decide to go to the concert because otherwise “you would have wasted your money”. Boom! You just fell for the sunk cost fallacy. Sure, you spent the money already. But you can’t get it back. If you aren’t going to have a good time at the concert, you only make your life worse by going. From psychologytoday.com (also lol…): You justify “riding a loser” or getting stuck on what you already have because you fear that walking away would mean that you wasted your time or money, you made a mistake, people will now say, “I told you so”, or you will then conclude, “I must be bad at making decisions because this one didn’t work out”. If you recognize any of this in yourself then you are suffering from commitment to sunk costs. You are trying to recover your investment by holding onto it because you cannot accept it is no longer working. I’ve known about this concept since before my transition; I would read my dad’s economics books a lot as a teenager. I studiously avoided applying it to my transition, as far as I can remember, until last year. I didn’t connect the two until around this time (June-ish) last year, when I was describing myself as a “gender-critical transman”. I was becoming increasingly aware of the way that transition as a strategy had failed to make me feel any better. I also was realizing that, if transition was meant to be a real choice, there had to be other options. I shouldn’t experience such overwhelming distress at the entirely hypothetical concept that I could possibly ever realize it wasn’t the best choice. I started recognizing that my distress undermined the narrative I was trying desperately to talk myself back into. I feel this process was related to both to sunk cost fallacy and to both denial and bargaining as stages of grief. It was incredibly uncomfortable, forcing myself to actually stay present with those feelings. It felt like torture. I was so used to running from feelings like that. I just couldn’t stand the dissonance anymore. The more I actually let myself talk, the more I could finally tell that what I was trying to talk myself into didn’t make any sense. From grief.com: Denial is the first of the five stages of grief. It helps us to survive the loss. In this stage, the world becomes meaningless and overwhelming. Life makes no sense. We are in a state of shock and denial. We go numb. We wonder how we can go on, if we can go on, why we should go on. We try to find a way to simply get through each day. Denial and shock help us to cope and make survival possible. Denial helps us to pace our feelings of grief. There is a grace in denial. It is nature’s way of letting in only as much as we can handle. As you accept the reality of the loss and start to ask yourself questions, you are unknowingly beginning the healing process. You are becoming stronger, and the denial is beginning to fade. But as you proceed, all the feelings you were denying begin to surface. After a loss, bargaining may take the form of a temporary truce. “What if I devote the rest of my life to helping others. Then can I wake up and realize this has all been a bad dream?” We become lost in a maze of “If only…” or “What if…” statements. We want life returned to what is was; we want our loved one restored. We want to go back in time: find the tumor sooner, recognize the illness more quickly, stop the accident from happening…if only, if only, if only. Guilt is often bargaining’s companion. The “if onlys” cause us to find fault in ourselves and what we “think” we could have done differently. We may even bargain with the pain. We will do anything not to feel the pain of this loss. We remain in the past, trying to negotiate our way out of the hurt. People often think of the stages as lasting weeks or months. They forget that the stages are responses to feelings that can last for minutes or hours as we flip in and out of one and then another. We do not enter and leave each individual stage in a linear fashion. We may feel one, then another and back again to the first one. This time last year, I was spending an awful lot of time in denial, carving my way out of it gradually through engaging with a very confusing and frustrating bargaining process. It wasn’t fun at all. The process reminded me of that kid’s song… “can’t go over it, can’t go under it, got to go through it”. I didn’t know what I would find. It was so fucking scary. From Science Translational Magazine: But they kept on going, because after all, we’ve come so far! Spent so much time! Surely there has to be something coming that will make good on all this effort? Not in those cases, and not in a lot of others. An economist (or a behavioral psychologist) might tell you that the way to handle a sunk-cost situation is to ignore the amount of effort, time, and money that’s been spent. As painful as it might be, those aren’t really that relevant. Treat the project as if it’s just dropped out of the sky in its current form and landed on your desk. Look at the situation as it is right now – do you want to go on, or not? That’s pretty much what going off testosterone came down to, for me. I didn’t want to go on. I had known for two months that I wanted to stop. If I wasn’t missing any injections (I can’t remember if I was) that means I injected myself 4 times for no reason except that I couldn’t admit I was wrong to have ever taken this shit. Considering how much I hated self-injecting, this really speaks to how mixed up I was. I never minded needles in general but doing it myself sucked and I absolutely hated it. I didn’t understand it when they trained me at all, I retained so little of the information. I was mostly guessing and going off FTM YouTube videos. I didn’t have the stomach to do an intramuscular injection quickly, I was terrified of hitting bone and had no practice with anything like this. I would put the needle in so slowly and then convince myself it “felt wrong” and make myself start over again, usually 2-10 times. Closer to the end, it always felt wrong. I’d have all these little holes from where I’d been jamming that needle. I would look at them and feel like there was some lesson I was supposed to be learning from that mess, and then I’d go distract myself with something so I’d forget all about those feelings. That Psychology Today article from earlier also had a set of questions and tips to talk you through making decisions about sunk costs. This would have been pretty helpful to me last year. In a recent study practicing 15 minutes of mindfulness meditation was helpful in making a decision to give up on a sunk cost. So, start by stepping back, breathe slowly, watch your breath go in and out, pay attention to your mind, and let go of judgment. Practicing slowing down your thinking is an important step in making good decisions. Once that you have slowed down your thinking you can consider the following: • If you were deciding again to make that purchase or get into that relationship, would you make the same decision? Why not? • If you lost that suit or dress, would you go out and buy the same one again? Why not? • Are you sacrificing other opportunities because you are stuck with the sunk cost? For example, are you giving up the possibility of other relationships or work or studies by sticking with something that is leading nowhere? What is the opportunity cost of your commitment to a past decision? • Could it be that the benefits of your choice decreased over time while the costs increased? If so, has the tradeoff (costs-benefits) changed? • Did you not have all the information when you made the initial decision but now-with new information—it is clear that this is not what you expected? • Are you trying to prove that you are right, even if it keeps you committed to the wrong decision? Is it more important to be right than to be happy? • If you were observing someone else in the same predicament, would you recommend that they stay with their sunk costs or get out? We are usually much better at giving up sunk costs in advising someone else because we are not trying to justify our own behavior. We are talking about someone else. • Could abandoning a sunk-cost be the sign of good decision making rather than bad decision making? All of us have made decisions that don’t work out—but a key element in good decision-making is in knowing when to quit. • Do you admire a good decision maker who has given up on a bad investment? Knowing when to fold is the sign of good poker. • Are you over-estimating the importance of short-term discomfort in giving up the sunk cost? Is it possible that the initial discomfort will give way to relief? • Have you given up on sunk costs in the past? Are you glad that you got out while you could? Did anything positive follow from giving up? Uncategorized sunk cost fallacy, denial, and bargaining Lately, when I get really wound up about my mastectomy, there are some recurring questions I get stuck on. Normally, they’re recurring obsessive thoughts. The longer I think about them, the more upset I get. Luckily, my attention span and short-term memory both got a lot worse over the last few years, so normally I just distract myself as necessary when I feel like I have to think about anything. But if I’m badly upset around someone I feel comfortable vocalizing this stuff to, which is vanishingly rare, I sob an awful lot and tend to repeat a few different questions with very noisy terror. They’re not really the kind of thing anyone else can answer for me, I don’t think. I’ll probably make a post about each of my questions eventually. I’m gonna go a little bit into my best guesses at where these phrases I repeat are coming from. The way I talk about my own chest shouldn’t be read as feelings or judgements I have about anyone else post-op, just to be clear. It’s been a long time since I had issues with externalizing my body issues and thinking nasty shit about others’ appearances. This is 100% about my trauma, not the aesthetic results of this surgery or defining anyone else’s experiences with transitional surgery. That being said… here’s the post. “WHO’S GOING TO LOVE ME NOW?” I actually am well aware that a lot of people love me at this point in my life, mostly other women, and I’m endlessly grateful for the many positive relationships I’m able to be a part of. On the surface this should be easy to talk myself down from, since there’s a lot of examples of who does love me now. It’s not exactly about that, though. What I really mean is just that I feel like a repulsive freak when I see or remember what exists now where my breasts were. As a result of that, I don’t feel like anyone could really love me ever again. I know this is irrational. There’s a couple directions where it comes from. One of them is horror at the knowledge of what actions were performed to change my body from how it was to how it is now. I get very distressed when I see footage, illustrations, or detailed descriptions of surgery. I did even before I had it. I can only watch the absolute fakest movie gore without freaking out the rest of the day about it. Even in cartoons, watching harm being done to living creatures (or corpses, actually, although that’s not pertinent here) upsets me. Like, as a child I used to be pretty troubled by Loony Tunes dropping anvils on people. I empathize with corpses, too, to the extent where I couldn’t participate in my 10th grade fetal pig dissection. I couldn’t make myself cut into something that still looked alive to me. The winter before my transition, when I was visiting my (also FTM, we ended up getting our mastectomies a couple weeks apart) partner in Canada, I remember how M liked to play through instructional surgery games on a smartphone. I tried to play the rhinoplasty one once out of morbid curiosity, didn’t finish, and still have intrusive thoughts about the cartoon graphics years later. After that, when M had those games open, I would make a point not to look. Until my consult, I had successfully avoided thinking very much about how you go from having breasts to not having breasts. I had obsessively researched every aspect of transition but I’d always skip over actual descriptions of surgeries. To his credit, Dr Crane did make me listen to a frank description of what double mastectomy entailed, even though I said I would rather not hear it. I felt like I shouldn’t have to- I’d be unconscious for it. He said it was important to know what you’re getting into. Fair enough. I still hate him. What I remember of the description he gave was that for each breast, they make an incision on the top of the breast itself, and then an incision beneath it. Everything between those two incisions gets cut away. They cut a hole in the tissue of the upper flap so that they can reattach the nipples, which they snipped away from all the rest of my breast tissue, which they’re just gonna toss. The upper and lower flaps are stitched together. The stitches dissolve, I think. I would have remembered them being taken out, I would hope. I’ve been scared of stitches my whole life. Surgical glue is used along with the stitches to minimize scarring. After that, they cut slits in the sides to put the draining tubes into. The drains fill with pus (I think?? It was yellow) and blood. Little chunks of tissue aren’t unusual. I got a paper saying how much blood and pus (probably) I should expect. You empty the drains every few hours…3 or 6 or something, god, I don’t remember. You come back in some number of days to get the drains taken out. After some other number of days, they take the cast off. I can’t remember which comes first. M was the last operation Dr Crane did drains on, by the way, 2 weeks after my operation. At least that’s what he told us. Now Crane is the guy who doesn’t need to do drains. Anyway… my memory is shit and I’ve been actively repressing this for years, so I would be very surprised if what I remember of him describing his operation was entirely accurate. Sequencing isn’t intuitive to me at the best of times but it’s one of many things that goes totally to shit when I’m upset, which I am, because thinking about this is upsetting. I made myself look at my chest in the mirror a lot after surgery, with the cast on and after it was off. I don’t remember how it made me feel. The other angle on why feeling like my body is disgusting upsets me is broader, more about transition as a whole than the more episodic trauma of surgery. Growing up as a butch lesbian had already made me feel pretty monstrous. I thought transition would deliver me from that, turning an unlovable girl into a lovable man. It didn’t work- I have never been a man and never will be. Grieving this broader disappointment is pretty tied up in grieving the failure of my mastectomy to give me a chest that I could feel good about- without having to do a shit ton of emotional work to get there. I thought I was taking a shortcut. In reality, I was using all of my notably limited emotional, physical, and financial resources to stomp in the opposite direction with great enthusiasm. It doesn’t feel good to think about this. Sunk cost fallacy and transition (especially transitional surgery) should probably be a whole separate post, though, because that is some real fuckin shit. Uncategorized 1. who’s going to love me now? This is such a valuable comparison and absolutely rings very true for me. Transition was a gradual process of escalating “tests” to either “check” or “prove” to myself that I was really male all along, with each stage accompanied by hours and hours of obsessive, circular rumination. CONSUME YOURSELF This post will only be a list of things I experienced as someone with obsessional thoughts about gender and gender identity. I will discuss some of them in depth in later posts. This list is not a complete list of what I experienced, nor is it a complete list of things a person could possibly experience when having these sorts of obsessions. It is not intended as indicative of a diagnosis of OCD or any other mental health condition. Transgender individuals struggling with obsessive thinking may want to reverse some of the statements in the list. Both trans and non-trans individuals without obsessive thinking may experience some of these thoughts or behaviors; the presence of some of these things does not inevitably mean one has OCD or a problem with anxious or obsessive thinking. And again, having obsessive thoughts or any other sort of uncertainty about one’s gender does not… View original post 562 more words Uncategorized transgender OCD: part 2 I got that phrase from somewhere. Sounds like asofterworld maybe, I used to read them all. I don’t know. It’s what I think of as the unifying quality between a seemingly disparate set of activities I’ve done (at different times, not all concurrently) that seemed like they had something unhealthy in common for me. Here’s the set, at least as far as I can remember it right now:  Running 10-25 miles a week Starving myself Testosterone injections Tweezing my eyebrows Shaving  So like… what linked these things was that I felt like I was stuck forcing myself to repeat these rituals I was miserable (often in pain, always disinterested) during in an attempt (successful or unsuccessful) to create some difference in my appearance that I (publicly or very privately) ascribed an almost religious importance to. To the extent that I could see the change I was manifesting, I would look at it compulsively and ruminate very repetitively on the degree of my “success”. I was doing all of these things in part to avoid social consequences, in some way or another. Running was about trying to lose weight and not pissing off my teammates. Starving myself was about thinking people would be nicer to me if I was thinner. Testosterone was about trying to escape the way I was treated as a woman. Tweezing was about thinking people would make fun of my eyebrows (in high school this would have been true… as an adult it really hasn’t come up, lol). Shaving my arms, legs, and armpits was about not being mocked for not being enough of a woman. Shaving my face was about trying to make myself more palatable to the people who knew I was detransitioned, and so I could feel like it wasn’t my fault when I still got read as male. None of these things made me feel any better. Treating my body as the problem has never moved me towards healing. It just reinforced that I’m not good enough and that I don’t deserve to control my own appearance. This isn’t how I want to relate to my body anymore. I’m tired of training myself I’m shit by forcing myself to do activities I find painful and/or tedious and/or stupid with the objective of pleasing another person or group of people. If someone actually wants to bully me into doing objectively unnecessary shit I don’t want to do, they’re the freak, not me. At this point I’m just so done taking on somebody else’s hangups about my body. I’ve got plenty of my own. Uncategorized hurting to become “Born wrong” is a joke we’ve been making for years about our rescue St Bernard mix Kovu, a dog who was not bred with care. He’s got hip dysplasia, he sheds more than any animal I’ve ever met, he drools constantly. He has this habit of coming over to us on the couch and bumping into you with his head and snuffling you all over, which could be cute if he wasn’t always drooling. Since he IS always drooling, this wipes pretty impressive amounts of drool all over your body. Drool isn’t just like a lot of spit, by the way. That’s what I thought it was going to be when I got him, but it’s more like spit mixed with snot. It’s viscous and it doesn’t dry clear. The strands collect his own hair, dirt, and wet chunks of whatever horrible thing he’s gotten into that day. They swing off when he trots around. Sometimes one just hits you out of nowhere. He doesn’t listen, either. We’ve been trying for years to get Kovu to sit down before he talks to us on the couch, instead of coming over and wiping his slime mouth all over us and whatever notebooks, computers, sewing projects, etc we’re looking at. Every single time he does it, we ask him to sit down (it gets his head and drool away from us). He just looks at you. When you’ve got food, he sits real quick, but good luck the rest of the time. You can look away and completely ignore him and he’s still gonna put his big wet head on you for like, 10-60 seconds before he finally sits down, if he ever even does. Sometimes he just slimes you and then stomps off all bow-legged to go ruin some other corner of the house. He’s extremely naughty and I love him very much. When I was 18 and going to community college (which lasted like, 6 months) I took this color theory class for fine arts credits. It was after my mastectomy but before I’d been on hormones long enough to pass consistently. Most everyone in the color theory class thought I was a woman. Same in cycling, I think. I only passed in biology. I can’t remember how I felt about that. So one of the big projects in color theory was a monochromatic self-portrait. I suck at human faces, could not stand to think about my appearance, and was tired of feeling conspicuously worse than everybody else in the class, so I painted Kovu instead. My artist’s statement was about what him and me had in common, which I think pretty much boiled down to “we both do our best and we still mess everything up”. I would have just been diagnosed with ADD then, but I didn’t really know what it meant. For the first time, when I saw a psychiatrist with a flat chest and real straggly facial hair, the issues I’d had functioning at the same level as my peers in many areas weren’t explained away by how sad I was. I stayed on Wellbutrin, but he gave me Adderal, too. That was the end of the conversation. It didn’t even occur to me for another 2 years to look up “ADD adult women”- I was a man, and I was fine now. I took the pills and could not believe the difference it made- I had one complete thought about the actual environment in front of me at a time. New thoughts followed in a logical order and at a manageable speed, instead of a half dozen scattered racing streams of anxious tangents overlapping each other. I got my homework done. I didn’t wander off. It just felt like being normal, more normal than I’d ever been before. The constant screw-ups slowed down. I didn’t microwave cups of noodles without water or lock myself out as often. Making fewer mistakes made me feel like a more lovable person. I just wanted to stop being the problem. Part of why I love Kovu so much is that no matter how incredibly inconvenient he is to us, he never actually seems to think it’s his fault. He does the scolded dog look and all that sometimes when you’re really put out with him, but even then, it’s so obvious that he has no idea why you don’t want to be buddies right then. It’s just never occurred to him that screwing everything up could be connected to people being annoyed with you sometimes. Self-blame is entirely unthinkable to this dog, and I envy that more than I can even figure out how to express. I feel consumed by shame constantly, all day, sometimes. Shame for things I just did, shame for things that I did last month, shame for things I did in 6th grade. Feels like I’m a big old carcass getting torn to shreds by a billion different shames, a whole ecosystem of lively and diverse shames. An awful lot of the time, all I can feel for myself is complete disgust. This has been getting better in the last year or so, but that’s really, really new for me. Something I would have learned, if I would have been seen as a woman, if my doctor had known anything or actually given a shit, would have been that growing up female and attention deficit means growing up believing that it’s your fault you aren’t the same as your peers. Reading Sari Solden’s book  about this recently was absolutely crazy- it never occurred to me that I could exist without constant overwhelming shame over all the stuff I couldn’t always do right. Like, that was a new concept to me. I wanted that for myself, clearly… I wanted to be like Kovu. A lot of my tumblr friends during the years when I was transitioning were “otherkin”: people who identified with some non-human entity so strongly that they felt it was more accurate to say that they identified AS the entity. I found these groups from others mocking them but ended up sticking around. We were all very traumatized and this coping mechanism never struck as all that much worse than any of the other weird shit we did. I didn’t argue with anyone about it but never did understand the necessity of leap between “identifying with” and “identifying as”, since they would all clarify when pressed that they knew they weren’t literally what they described themselves as, and were clear about it being a spiritual belief/coping strategy. An awful lot of otherkin I knew started out just doing a lot of roleplaying online. I didn’t consider myself “kin” in any sense, but in a way, I envied them, too. Obviously that’s not reasonable or fair… all of us had horrible lives in a lot of ways. But secretly, I still loved the idea of actually convincing myself I was a dog and having my friends all agree. What stopped me from doing what some of my friends were doing wasn’t not wishing I was a dog. What stopped me was my fear of looking stupid. Pretty much all of my otherkin friends also identified as trans. I saw them doing the same kind of clue-seeking looks into their childhood that take place in my process of justifying my transition to myself. Things like “I always loved playing in the dirt” were used to support a current identity as a certain Digimon or whatever. I could see the flimsiness of this logic even then. These people talked a lot about how “kin positivity”, but considering themselves non-human didn’t appear to be enhancing the quality of their lives in any material sense, at least as far as I could discern. “It’s a coping strategy for my trauma/mental illness and you don’t know my life” was pretty much always the end of any conversation about whether or not this was helping. Even so… few months before I finally started letting myself question the efficacy of transition as a strategy in my life, I remember making this rambling post about how one of the reasons I identified as male and liked he pronouns was because it felt closer to being a dog than she pronouns or femaleness. That’s where my line of reasoning stopped, at that point. The broader context of the circles I was in allowed for me to say something like this without anyone asking any of the questions that the statement pretty much begs: why do you want to be a dog? What is that dogs and men have in common that you want badly enough to justify hormones, surgery, and everything else? It would have startled me to hear, but I think I could have answered it, even then. Here’s some of the reasons I think I’d have given:  People expect less of dogs. People are nice to dogs. When dogs make a mistake, people don’t treat them bad for it. Dogs get to go outside a lot. Dogs don’t have to worry what anybody thinks of them.  I’m just noticing now is that all these things assume the dog (or the man) isn’t abused or neglected. “Always greener on the other side” thinking was a big part of transition for me. I was really into convincing myself that the outcome I would get from these steps would always be the “best” one possible. With my double mastectomy, I knew that noticeable asymmetry, results very different from a male chest, nerve damage, and loss of nipple sensation were risks I was assuming, and if you asked me, I would have said that all of those things very carefully. I think I really did usually believe that (there were always cracks in my self-deception), but it was not true. I was way too dissociated to truly engage in earnest with the subject matter: my own body. In no sense did I actually try to imagine the reality of living with so many of the experiences that I have no choice but to live with now. My priorities were so different then. Having it “look good” and happen quickly was what I wanted most. The insurance I had would have covered an in-network guy, but the only review I could find of his work was that they had ended up going to Dr Crane for a revision anyway. I had been earning royalties since I was 16 designing print-to-order gifts and apparel with the intention of using it for surgery and for college, so with some help from my family, I could afford him. I knew Garramone had more male-looking results with chests the size of mine, but I didn’t want to fly to Florida. Here’s an aside real quick… just googled his name to check my spelling and the description for his site includes a trademark registered with a national trademark office: “Top Surgery ® Florida – Dr. Garramone performs the best FTM Top Surgery ® Procedure, Periareolar, Keyhole, Double Incision, and DI offered in Florida”. I hadn’t been to his site in a long time. It’s a lot more transparent about marketing transitional surgery than I recall noticing in 2012 or whatever. The way my chest actually looks now is not a possibility I had actually seriously considered, as far as I can remember, even though I don’t think it’s especially unusual as far as results go. I thought anything would be better than having breasts, but I refused to investigate my feelings about the individual outcomes contained within that “anything”. Not that I’d feel any better if my chest did look identical to a man’s. I don’t believe anymore that cosmetic surgery can “go right”. Wanting to look different so badly that you actually pay money to be drugged to unconsciousness, cut apart, and wake up stuck back together by doctors (who get paid to do this all the time)… how could that be anything but traumatic? I understand that many survivors of cosmetic surgery disagree with me on this. They’re fully entitled to believe what they will about their own experiences, and about cosmetic surgery as a practice. But so am I. My biggest hope for conversations about these topics isn’t that whoever I’m talking to agrees with everything I say. All I really want is to for us to be able to listen to each other. For most of my transition, I would have completely shut down if I tried to read anything like the kind of stuff I write now. I remember trying to write rebuttals to feminist writing on transition that I found offensive but never being able to get more than a few words down, because the possibility that transition was not this saving grace made me too distressed to think straight. I was extremely dissociated and absolutely miserable in my body. I had done an awful lot of things trying to feel better, and nothing had worked. I just wanted something to work. By the time it was becoming difficult to keep convincing myself transition had resolved these issues that were clearly still present, I had already invested so much. I didn’t want to die, and this had seemed like the only way to stay alive. It was really fucking hard to admit I was wrong. If I hadn’t been in a place with more stability and supportive women in my life than I’ve ever had before, I think I would have backed out. Actually facing my reality has been much, much harder than transition. Lately I’ve been working on the way I tend to think or sometimes actually say “I want to die” whenever anything goes wrong, which got a lot worse when I went off Cymbalta. Now, when it happens, I remind myself that I don’t really want that. I just am feeling hopeless. I walk myself through naming what’s bothering me and making a plan to address it. That means taking steps like considering a transfer at work, quitting weed, trying to find somebody to talk to about my feelings, or whatever. I’ve been noticing that for me now, the way I feel when I say “I want to die” is pretty close to the way I remember feeling when I was obsessively fixated on the whatever next step of my transition. It’s an attempt to find a shred of hope in hopelessness, to believe that something can relieve my pain, whether that’s suicide or facial hair. These thoughts are a feeble attempt to combat learned helplessness. They are a maladaptive expression of resilience in the face of a world that is built to destroy women like me any way it can. “If I’m the problem, I can fix it” lines of thinking justified my suicidal ideation as well as transition. My overwhelming self-blame seems like an attempt to claim control where I feel I have none. Do I really have none, though? Not quite. I’m realizing that now, as an adult woman, I have a lot more control than I ever realized. I don’t have as much control as I want, and I don’t have as much control as I feel women deserve. Still, an awful lot of what has kept me still in fear is not material barriers. It’s the fear I have been taught since girlhood. Why bother locking women in if we’re all too scared to go outside anyway? Patriarchy has grown complacent in the totality of its reign over women. The more time I spend actively training myself out of learned helplessness, the easier it’s becoming to strategize around the obstacles that are not just in my head. I don’t know. I meant to tie this all together more coherently but I’m kind of losing interest. The main thing is, I don’t think anybody is actually born wrong anymore, but that kind of thinking was a major part of why I transitioned. Now, I believe everyone deserves the quality of support and accommodations necessary for her to live as she is. I do not believe that the male medical industrial complex is a great place to find genuine healing from issues of profound and life-altering bodily dissociation/distress. Uncategorized born wrong This isn’t my surgeon I’m talking about here, just to be clear. I went to Dr Curtis Crane in San Francisco. I’m talking about another “big name” in transitional surgery, Dr Garramone. I went to go doublecheck the spelling of his name yesterday (I always think it’s Garramond for some reason) and got a look at his website. Which… like, damn. From his website: ManSculpture® Body Masculinization: Transgender Surgery ManSculpture® Body Masculinization is commonly performed at the same time as the FTM Top Surgery® Procedure. This consists of shaping the body to a more “masculine” form with the use of Power Assisted Liposuction techniques. By lipocontouring the abdomen (stomach), love handles (flanks), and the “saddle bag” area of the outside hips or thighs with ManSculpting, Dr. Garramone can give your body a more streamlined and masculine appearance. This is an attempt to up-sell… Garramone’s special trademarked manly lipo (you’ve got to specify it’s masculine, because getting fat removed from your body is culturally coded as feminine) costs $2500 to $6000 extra. With the use of the derisive terms “love handles” and “saddle bags”, he’s using the “problem-agitate-solve” advertising strategy. This is used most transparently in infomercials for quick fix products. Here’s a rundown of the structure from a marketing blog: Problem: Identify your reader’s pain point. Agitate: Stir it up so it hurts to the point of discomfort. Solve: Deliver a solution. The problem readers are having is profound, life-altering levels of disconnect and/or distress with their bodies. The language here is intended to agitate these feelings by using words that connote disgust for body fat, particularly disgust for typically female patterns of body fat distribution. The solution is liposuction. Deliberately playing on the emotional problems of those who seek transition in order to “move product” should not be considered acceptable conduct from someone providing a surgery that’s thought to be the only way to avoid death by suicide. If you think transition is essential to surviving the desire to transition, you should be horrified to see this shit. Somebody offering you a lifeboat shouldn’t be saying “hey, for $2500 to $6000 more, I’ll throw in some water bottles, and by the way, you look fat from up here.” That is not the kind of help anyone should be grateful for. The fact that this guy is still getting paid a shit ton of money to remove healthy tissue, despite a clear lack of empathy for his patients, speaks to the chronic low self-worth and desperation that tends to drive business for any cosmetic surgeon. It’s worth noting here that an awful lot of people who are seeking transitional surgery (myself included) spend months obsessing over their prospective surgeon, reading and rereading every relevant page of their website. For me, this was true from the very early phases, when I was really just fantasizing, all the way up to right before my operation. My impression from the time I’ve spent in both transition and detransition community online has led me to believe I was very typical in this respect. Garramone almost certainly has a huge amount of repeating traffic from the same viewers, which has to heighten the emotion impact of the strategically misogynistic language chosen. The phrases “love handles” and “saddle bags” aren’t just agitating to FTMs. They’re a part of the language of self-disgust that all women are taught. One of the patriarchally-approved techniques we are given to soothe ourselves is externalizing this shame, so it’s also how many women talk about body fat in general. I googled “love handle liposuction” for a minute and that’s apparently how an awful lot of plastic surgeons refer to the flanks. Really? It’s coercive to deliberately activate shame in order to convince people made vulnerable by an incredibly toxic society that removing healthy tissue will solve their emotional problems. Cosmetic surgeons, including those offering transitional surgery, are trying to move product. Like most people in sales, they prey on emotional vulnerabilities. When I went to Curtis Crane’s office for my double mastectomy consult, I couldn’t believe how nice the staff treated me. As a teenage butch lesbian with learning disabilities who was unable to perform male-defined femininity “correctly” and pretty much always perceived as “weird” or outright pegged as a dyke, I was not used to strangers being that kind to me. I haven’t had strangers treat me with that kind of impersonal sweetness anywhere else except church. The last time it happened at church was while I was working a couple weeks ago and taking a man to a sign language service at the Kingdom Hall. I got offered two different jobs, they made sure I got seconds (my food/body issues have improved in a lot of ways but I still have a real weakness for anyone who indicates they don’t want me to starve until I look “better”). A part of me wanted to go back following their dress code, the first time I had even thought of going out in public wearing clothes I hated in years. That’s how lovebombing makes you feel- it makes you want to do whatever’s necessary to keep that attention coming. Another experience that reminded me of Crane was going to the dermatologist who prescribed me Accutane when I was 14, a woman who had visibly had a decent amount of elective procedures on her face. She looked at my (moderate and typical for my age group) acne with such pity and she promised she was going to help me be the beautiful young woman I was meant to be. The concept of a life-changing makeover is not a new one to any woman. As someone who has a trauma response to dressing “like a girl”, the pressure to be beautiful (according to male standards) has been painful in a specific way. Lots of women have tried to help me look more like them all my life. My degree of compliance varied by situation, but I consistently experienced these efforts as a rejection of me as I already was, whether or not I let on about it. How did I convince myself that trying to transform myself into a man was going to feel any better than trying to transform myself into a type of woman I never had any interest in being? Sometimes I can follow my old logic, sometimes I can’t. Neither made sense without the basic assumption that I needed fixing. Neither made sense without a fundamental lack of faith in the ability of butch lesbians to live meaningful lives. I don’t know. Fuck Garramone, and fuck Crane. Uncategorized GenSculpt® FTM Top Surgery® Was I ever really trans? This depends how you define trans. For the purpose of this post, let’s try two common ones. The first one is the definition that was more or less common usage within the transgender communities I participated in. In this community, “transgender” was used to describe anyone who identified as trans. It was also used to describe anyone (celebrities, historical figures, fictional characters, etc) who hadn’t explicitly stated they were not trans, as long as they “seemed trans”, a totally subjective matter (although gender non-conforming people “seemed trans” an awful lot more often). The other is the medical definition. From the DSM-V, quoted from crashchaoscat’s helpful post with the exact text- “Gender dysphoria refers to the distress that may accompany the incongruence between one’s experienced or expressed gender and one’s assigned gender.” I was trans, as much as anybody else ever was. I identified as trans and had diagnosed dysphoria. The feelings that were diagnosed that way absolutely did exist, and continue to exist, although I understand them differently now. I sought and obtained legal and medical transition measures. I was seen by a half dozen different mental or physical health professionals in a context relevant to my transition, all of whom were convinced I was transgender. There is no trait I had that does not also exist in FTMs who did not stop transition or report negative outcomes. I don’t describe myself as trans anymore, but by some definitions, I could still be described that way by others- and still often am! People who have been introduced to me as a woman still ask me if I’m trans. Strangers online say that I’m just repressing my true transgender self. Some legal and social complications due to legal identification forms perceived (by oneself and/or by others) as incongruous are also held in common between many trans people and me. My passport still says male, at this time. Strangers generally assume I’m male, and are surprised by what they see as a disparate sex on my license, which I’ve changed back to female. I haven’t gotten through the paperwork to change my sex back to female with my healthcare provider; this has led to inconsistent pronouns in medical documentation I needed to obtain disability accommodations. I experience a sense of alienation from my body and often wish many of my features appear more male-typical. I cannot function normally in clothes that I feel make my body appear more obviously female, due to the amount of distress my appearance causes me under those circumstances. I am deeply upset by how female my face looks when I shave my facial hair. Despite this, the relief I got from actually making my body appear more male-typical was fleeting, and my quality of life has improved dramatically since stopping transition. The premise, “people who detransition were never trans”, is frequently assumed to be free-standing, with no defense provided. This is convenient to those who are highly invested in dismissing detransitioned women as credible witnesses to our own lives, but ignores the many, many points of similarity that tend to be held in common between those who continue transition and those who find other ways to cope. Women who detransition absolutely were trans at one time, at least according to many definitions. We all identified as trans and had a strong drive to pursue transition, in some form or another, at one point. Many of us were diagnosed officially. There is not any common trait, or set of traits, that set us all apart from those who continue transition. The belief that only those who are not “truly trans” could experience relief through strategies other than transition puts a whole lot of power in the hands of the professionals who profit daily from the current framework, wherein transition is considered the only treatment for virtually anyone motivated to seek it persistently. In contrast, the belief that there are many potentially useful strategies for handling the experiences diagnosable as dysphoria (alongside or instead of transition), many of which can be successful without any contact with mental health professionals or physicians, puts more power in the hands of individuals with those experiences. In many ways, this is analogous to the belief that someone who experiences relief without utilizing the psychiatric model of care was never really suffering, because those who are truly suffering require psychiatry to heal. Both empower doctors, at the expense of everyone experiencing direct psychological and physiological consequences from the choices those doctors make about their treatment. In both cases, it makes sense that professionals tend to be emotionally invested in a narrative where their care is the only barrier between suffering and suicide. Seeing yourself as a savior feels really good, whereas seeing yourself as someone who sometimes does totally unnecessary harm feels pretty bad. Sunk cost bias applies to doctors and therapists as much as it applies to anyone else. I understand the resistance to what myself and other detransitioned women are saying. Uncategorized was i ever “really trans”? First of all, the article (I don’t really feel like linking it- sorry) absolutely could have been worse. I understand that when you talk to a journalist, you lose control of the narrative to a significant degree, and we willingly signed up for that. It was a gamble and the outcome was middling, where “good” is Katie Herzog’s article and “really bad” is a Daily Mail shock piece. I wouldn’t highly recommend media contact with Charlotte McCann to anyone in detransition community, even so. Making yourself that vulnerable on a very public scale isn’t worth it for a “could be worse” article. It’s worth it for a genuinely good one. I’m not trying to stop people from sharing it or anything. I’m really glad others are finding value in it and if I was able to be more objective, I might like it more, but some of the stuff that bothered me feels really personal and is hard to be perfectly diplomatic about. Honestly, I really liked Charlie, too. Would absolutely still recommend her as a house guest. The photographer was totally cool to work with, too, super nice about our various neuroses. Anyway, this response is mainly for talking about with people who know me personally, so that I don’t have to keep explaining everything I found frustrating, and for myself, so that I stop reciting in my head everything that’s bugging me about that article.  Our house is not a trash hoard, in case you were wondering. We have some thrifted paintings and ceramics that apparently some people might think belong in garbage cans. Fair enough, different strokes, but I would have appreciated clearer language there. “Full of junk” implies our house wasn’t clean. It was. The guy who died a few months ago, the one I was supporting at work whose picture is on my wall, isn’t any type of Asian, and neither of us ever said he was. He was Alaska Native. I’m assuming she just guessed based on the photo. If a reporter is going to describe someone I cared a lot about, whose death really messed with me, with very little information other than his race, it feels to me like it wouldn’t be that hard to ask where his family was from. Honestly, this is what’s bothering me the most and probably a big reason why I’m feeling so cranky about the whole article. I worked really hard to meet his needs and advocate for his rights when he was alive, but now he’s dead, and there really isn’t anything I can do about it. It sucks. Feeling like his picture on our wall is being used as a vehicle to make some weird assumptions about me and my partner’s life, and have disrespectful assumptions about his race thrown in, is pretty shitty. My face was never sharp. I’ve been at least kind of fat as long as I was on testosterone. I had more masculine facial fat distribution when I was on HRT, but “sharp” is a serious stretch. Anyway, I didn’t show her any pictures of myself on testosterone. Since neither of us said my face was ever sharp and we never showed her any pictures, I found that comment weird. My skin wasn’t rough, either. I get cold easier now because testosterone makes your skin thicker. I haven’t noticed my skin feeling softer, just the difference in cold sensitivity. Again, weird, since we didn’t say it and I feel like I would remembered this lady having touched my skin a couple years back. I was diagnosed as ADD and bipolar three or four years ago, not exactly recently. “FTMTF” is not how I understand myself. I’m actually pretty sure I recall the term coming up, and us saying something along the lines of, we don’t know anyone who uses that language for herself and we don’t feel it’s accurate. I was really, really clear that I have been female this whole time. I have never used that term for myself and actually find it pretty distasteful. I felt the off-and-on he pronoun thing was gimmicky, distracting, and inaccurate. Like… the sentence “When Max was 19, just over three years after he came out as transgender, she realised he’d made a mistake”? Geez. I’m actually one person. Just the one. I don’t feel separating myself into at least two, if not more, is actually gonna do me any favors. I didn’t use male pronouns for myself at any point in our conversation. I was very clear that I have been a girl/woman and a lesbian the entire time. I notice at another point in the article, when describing a theoretical “pre-everything” three year old ostensibly beginning identify as a transgender girl, the preferred pronoun of that hypothetical toddler is used. In contrast, I was referred to as male intermittently throughout, although I was super clear about not identifying that way. Just something I noticed. We did talk about this before the article came out- Charlie asked me how I felt about it, I expressed that I hated it and why, she said that she could try to talk to her editor if I absolutely insisted but she firmly believed that would ruin the story. At that point I repeated that I hated it but that obviously, she was the journalist here and it was her call. Which it was. I requested that, in spite of the pronoun switching, she made it clear that I believe I have been female the whole time, that transition happened to me as a girl and as a woman. She assured me this would be clear. I don’t feel that “Max is a woman and has been one for two years” communicates this at all. In fact, it specifically communicates the opposite. “Max detransitioned for several reasons; the most significant one was that she is not transgender” is an oversimplification that I specifically addressed during our interview. I told her that while transitioning, I was as transgender as anyone else, that there’s no single part of my experiences that applies only to women who would eventually detransition, that everything you could pick out as a reason why I “wasn’t ever trans” is something that applies to a bunch of people who haven’t stopped identifying as trans. I said that by some definitions, I still am transgender, although I don’t describe myself that way: I pass as male frequently, I’m butch, I have issues with people feeling my legal sex doesn’t match my appearance. I told her I still experience the feelings that motivated me to transition, and that I don’t see an inherent difference between me and those who continue transition. Kitty and I explained that we feel transition is one strategy for coping with dysphoria, but that both of us now utilize other strategies. I do not feel that any of these nuances were conveyed. The reporter only spent time in our living room and bathroom, where we don’t have any pictures of ourselves up. There’s actually a bunch of pictures, including both of us and many of our friends, by our kitchen table, on our cork board. She never asked about this and it never came up, as far as I remember. Kinda makes all the extrapolation about why we don’t have those pictures up seem silly.  Basically: reading this article makes me feel like a lot of what I said in that interview wasn’t actually heard. I’m having a hard time being objective about it. That being said, I still hope it can do some good, and I feel this was a productive learning experience for me and my partner. Uncategorized beef post Walt Heyer, the king of religious conservative ass-kissing in the world of male detransition, has once again laid himself low in the interest of being a good, compliant “redeemed” freak (speaking as a fellow freak who has not found God’s light remotely helpful). His article addressing Trump’s tweets about a military ban on transgender people is exactly what one would expect: more ass-kissing. Positioning state-sanctioned murder as an act of valor is hard to defend without resorting to nationalism for its own sake. Heyer certainly doesn’t feel the need to defend it any other way in this piece. He takes it for granted that supplying Donald Trump with the highest quality of soldiers not only is, but should be a top priority. Obviously, this is the function of the military. That’s an issue! If you don’t trust the government, it doesn’t make sense to valorize the military it trains into total compliance (using methods that would be described as cult-like in many contexts) and deploys according to the strategic goals of the state. That’s some bullshit. The military is not our friend, and it is not an honor to be included. In theory, yeah, I would prefer Trump had no army to command. That’s not what Trump would prefer, though. Excluding a group from an institution he sees as grand isn’t anti-colonialism. It’s testing the waters in terms of what will be tolerated, and it’s going to be part of an on-going effort to scapegoat transgender people (among many, many others) in order to distract from other issues and drive a wedge to exploit in 2020. This isn’t about our army being at its best. Transgender people have demonstrated clearly an ability to participate equally in the military. There may be times when a transgender member of the military can’t obtain treatments due to service conditions, or times when they aren’t eligible to serve due to treatments an individual may feel to be necessary. This could be true of anyone else who might consider service, too, though; none of us can be guaranteed a life free of medical or personal difficulties that might impact our ability to serve as a cog in the war machine. The whole “it costs too much” thing Heyer brings up is dumb, too; Viagra is a much larger expense than transition for the Pentagon. Yeah, we could argue about whether transition is a consistently effective, ethical treatment, but it’s pretty clear that Trump didn’t make those tweets because he’s been reading a lot of detransition blogs and he’s concerned doctors might not have our best interests at heart. Heyer also talks like the higher rates of suicidality in the trans population represent a threat to our nation’s “defense”. What? The US military already has a serious problem with suicide, even among soldiers who were never deployed. If that was an issue that was considered a high priority, you’d think it would have been addressed a little more effectively by now. With no data to support that transgender soldiers are any more likely to suffer from the 20-25% increase in suicide rate compared to the general population, it’s dishonest to act like that’s a solid reason to bar a group from service. The military itself is directly causing a shit ton of suicides (not to mention murdering people!). The article also fails to address a pretty major concern about all this: how is “transgender” even going to be defined for the purpose of these proposed changes? Trump didn’t say, and it’s an incredibly nebulous term. It’s hard to imagine how someone seriously concerned about the needs of people who seek transition at some point in their life would fail to show any interest in the way that line is drawn. Re: “the military is a fighting force, not a gender clinic”- yeah, it’s not a clinic, period. Yet VA hospitals are totally a thing. What gives? It’s almost like healthcare is a service contractually promised to members of the military!! Come on. Nobody’s saying we should be performing mastectomies in the trenches. But plenty of military members get all kinds of operations and treatments using money allocated for their medical care. If he just wanted to talk about the ways he feels transition differs from other forms of care, that’s a conversation I feel is worth having. That isn’t enough, though. That conversation isn’t nearly as interesting to a lot of people. “The military is awesome and trans people are too crazy not to fuck it up” is a lot easier to get published so that you can get more traffic to your weird evangelical detransition website. Whatever, Walt! Damn! Whatever! Uncategorized seriously, fuck walt heyer I’m posting here the statement I made on behalf of Re-Sisters that’s being read on Women’s Liberation Radio News. Here is the episode where it was included. My name is Max Robinson and I’m a member of Re-Sisters, an organization for detransitioned and re-identified womyn, as well as female-born trans people. Re-Sisters formed to build solidarity between these populations and to fight for female liberation, particularly when the battle at hand will be better fought when armed with our perspectives. I’ve done a lot of speaking and writing about being a woman who stopped my ftm transition and re-claimed myself as a lesbian. Right-wing Christians have often moved to co-opt my experiences, and those of many other women like me, trying to utilize us against our own interests and the interests of females as a class. Having my words taken out of context and used by the right led me to understand a lot about the dynamics at play when fundamentalists decide to “include” radical feminists in their platforms. They wouldn’t do that unless they knew that ultimately, the supposed “alliance” would serve their patriarchal order. I could list many examples of hard-right-wingers utilizing the words of detransitioned women—for one, Michelle Cretella, formerly a Board member of NARTH, the foremost anti-gay “conversion therapy” organization in the US; and current president of the American College of Pediatricians, an activist group of conservative physicians against gay and lesbian parenting. Cretella recently wrote a glowing endorsement of feminist anthology “Female Erasure,” specifically mentioning all the detransitioned women’s narratives. Was this a heartwarming moment of female solidarity across political lines? No, Cretella blatantly lied about our essays, utilizing the idea of us for her own agenda. Conversion therapy advocates believe that being gay or lesbian is linked to childhood gender role confusion. They believe a wholesome Christian family—a Gender Correct Father and a Gender Correct Mother—prevents children from being gay or lesbian. Their issue with pediatric transition is that they believe it’s against God’s plan—that it makes permanent the “role confusion” of homosexuality, which should instead be “straightened out.” They think women like us are potentially useful as pitiable rhetorical objects. Or that we can be “perfected” into stereotype-conforming heterosexual women. Most women who stop ftm transition are lesbians; many of us have no intention of leading stereotype-driven lives; many of us will continue to live socially passing as men whether we want to or not; and all of us want the best possible lives for our friends and loved ones who still live as transmen. Nothing that hurts gays, lesbians, and transmen is going to be acceptable to us. We don’t welcome someone like Cretella to use our words against us. But this is one example in a larger trend. The Federalist put a reporter, Stella Morabito, on the “gender identity” beat. The Alliance Defending Freedom started funding a group calling itself Women’s Liberation Front. The Heritage Foundation hosted a panel discussion titled “Biology Isn’t Bigotry: Why Sex Matters in the Age of Gender Identity.” The power differences between these “allies” ought to tell us a lot. Why is the powerhouse think tank that helped elect Trump hosting radical feminists on a panel? Who hosts the events? Who publishes the articles, or airs the news segment? Who’s got the money in their hands? Usually, it’s not radical feminists. Conservatives have demonstrated time and again that they are capable of extremely effective strategizing. Their current strategy relies on exploiting the inherent weakness in LGBT “inclusion” practices which fail to differentiate between the needs of lesbians, gay men, transmen, transwomen, and other queer-identified people. By fighting against what they call “SOGI (sexual orientation and gender identity) laws”—which is any legislation impacting any member of these obviously distinct and internally diverse groups, the right utilizes legitimate feminist resistance against the excesses of “gender identity” against the entire range of lesbian, gay, and trans people, as well as women overall. A feminist response would need to hold some nuance—defending lesbian, gay, and transgender housing and employment rights against the likes of the Heritage Foundation, for example, while also resisting laws which would render sex a meaningless category. A feminist response must be a real alternative, rather than throw weight behind either “side” when neither side represents the interests of females as a class—that is, all females, whether lesbian, straight, transgender-identifying, or other. There is a difference between laws that allow gender-nonconforming people—trans-identified or not—to participate fully in society, versus laws that entitle someone with a penis to housing in a women’s shelter based on a stated “identity.” A feminist response needs to account for this discrepancy. There’s nothing feminist about allying with those who want to make discrimination against transgender, lesbian, and gay people as legal as possible. When women are used to promote conservative values against our will, we have even less control over how they choose to represent our beliefs and experiences. Co-optation, whether consensual or not, undermines the goal of female liberation. Under the cut I’m going to longer, unedited version.  My name is Max Robinson and I wrote this statement addressing collaboration with conservatives on behalf of Re-Sisters, an organization for detransitioned and reidentified womyn, as well as female born trans people, formed to protect the interests of this population. Inclusion of radical feminists on conservative platforms would not happen unless the beliefs they are being allowed to espouse by explicitly heterosexual authorities are not any kind of threat to the conservative church or patriarchal family unit. Who hosts the events? Who publishes the article, or airs the news segment? Who’s got the money in their hands? Usually, it’s not radical feminists. I’m going to address several contemporary instances of conservatives utilizing radical feminists to promote their own positions. Conservatives have demonstrated time and time again that they are capable of extremely effective strategizing. The Heritage Foundation is a conservative think tank that helped to get Trump elected and has supported him in many ways since he took office. This same organization also invited the well-respected lesbian activist Miriam Ben-Shalom, among others, to a panel discussion titled “Biology Isn’t Bigotry: Why Sex Matters in the Age of Gender Identity”. The moderator of this panel, Ryan T. Anderson, has numerous pieces published on the Heritage Foundation website opposing same-sex marriage, same-sex adoption, and anti-discrimination laws protecting all types of LGBT individuals. In these articles, Ryan often makes no distinction between gay men, lesbian women, and transgender people, using the term “SOGI laws” (sexual orientation and gender identity) to describe any legislation impacting any member of these obviously distinct and internally diverse groups. In the same articles, Ryan consistently fails to differentiate between laws that protect transgender (and gay or lesbian) people’s rights to housing, employment, or the ability to charge bias-motivated assaults or murders as hate crimes, at no cost to the rights of women in general, versus those that entitle someone with a penis to access spaces like a female-exclusive spa on the basis of verbally stated identity. By participating in alliances like this, radical feminists are lending their support to a movement with the goal of keeping actual discrimination (including bias-motivated assaults or murders!) against transgender, lesbian, and gay people as legal as possible. Who was served by this coalition, and who was used? This is not sitting next to the missionary’s son in the lunchroom, or bringing muffins to your Republican neighbor when her husband is sick. Personal relationships are distinct from political alliances. Ryan might be an awesome guy to talk to in the grocery store line, but he is paid to produce material undermining the rights of LGBT people to have families and access housing and employment without fear of mistreatment based exclusively on their orientation or history of transition. Beyond simply being anti-lesbian, the belief that the “natural family” consists of one man, one woman, and their offspring is directly in opposition to the foundational beliefs held by radical feminists. An example even more pertinent to the members of Re-Sisters is the inclusion of Dr Michella Cretella in the feminist anthology Female Erasure. Here, a feminist did create and control the platform, but chose to include a conservative woman. Dr Cretella is the current president of the American College of Pediatricians, an activist group of conservative physicians founded in opposition to the American Academy of Pediatrics’ support for same-sex adoption. She served for years on the board of directors for NARTH (National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality), now rebranded as the Alliance for Therapeutic Choice. The sole purpose of this organization is to justify and promote reparative therapy, an abusively anti-gay practice. Three members of Re-Sisters (Crash, Devorah, and Max) were also included in this anthology. We were not aware of Dr Cretella’s involvement until after publication. Cretella’s endorsement of Female Erasure includes specific references to the works of the Re-Sister members who contributed: “de-transitioned women view their transgender experience as having been pressured into chemically and surgically impersonating a man in order to role play a heterosexual relationship with another biological woman.” Not only did none of us ever experience our transitions in the way she describes, none of us indicated this in our contributions to Female Erasure, either. This blatant lie about our lives and work serves the agendas of both the American College of Pediatricians and the Alliance for Therapeutic Choice much more effectively than the nuances expressed in our actual contributions, however. Anti-gay religious groups frequently describe homosexuality as stemming from “gender role confusion”, a formulation which implies that our deviant behavior can be corrected through reparative therapy. Flattening our unique experiences with transition in this way promotes her consistently expressed belief that homosexuality can and should be fixed whenever possible. She later describes a “transgender tsunami” and “transgender tyranny”, but never differentiates between transgender men and women, or identifies men as the benefactors of misogyny. This does not serve women, and it certainly does not serve lesbian women, and/or women with a history of transition. Casting transgender people as a homogeneous pack of enemies is a conservative invention that lends itself readily to the misogynistic and homophobic basis of the conservative gripe with transition. Another quote from Cretella’s endorsement: “However, the greatest gift I received from Ruth’s invitation to be a part of Female Erasure was the opportunity to have civil and heartfelt conversations with fellow women regarding topics over which we sharply disagree: abortion, homosexuality in children, and same-sex marriage and parenting. Together we discovered that while we may never fully agree on these topics, we are more alike than we are different.” Yes, we may all bleed red, but upholding the father-controlled family unit at the cost of stripping rights from anyone who fails to perfectly recreate patriarchal structures in their homes is in direct opposition to radical feminist values. Cretella minimizes the importance of female reproductive autonomy, gay and lesbian children’s right to grow up in peace, marriage equality, and parental rights for lesbian and gay people with children. By choosing to work with women like Cretella, radical feminists support the conservative devaluation of female life. Further evidence of right wing eagerness to co-opt the narratives of detransitioned women in particular is seen in this article published on the Illinois Family Institute’s website, whose “statement on the family” reads “We deny that “family” includes two or more persons of the same or opposite sex who live together outside the institution of marriage whether for convenience or homosexuality or romance or experimentation or otherwise.” Three members of Re-Sisters are quoted in IFI’s article (Cari, Carey, and Crash). None were asked for permission, and none would have given their permission if asked. The single woman IFI chose to include (before/after) photos of, however, is the only one of the three who is heterosexual and relatively gender-conforming in appearance. Although Cari and Crash are lesbians and all three of these women acknowledge that many detransitioned women are lesbians, there is no mention of lesbianism in the IFI article. Their experiences and viewpoints were sanitized in order to oppose what IFI terms “science-denying sexuality dogma”, a phrase which conflates homophobia with the critical thought these women applied regarding the role transition played in their own lives. Collaboration with conservatives regarding issues of gender identity is intrinsically incompatible with radical feminist values. When it is willing, we are choosing to water down our beliefs substantially in order to be tools of anti-woman, anti-gay organizations. Making this choice demonstrates to other women that accessing illusions of power through patriarchal authorities is no less feminist than autonomous organization. When women are used to promote conservative values against our will, we have even less control over how they choose to represent our beliefs and experiences. Co-option, whether consensual or not, undermines the goals of the feminist movement. Thank you. Where you can find works of the women mentioned in the statement: Max Robinson (youtube) (wordpress) (art collective) Cari Stella (youtube) / (tumblr) Redress Alert (tumblr) Crash (youtube) (tumblr) Uncategorized conservatives Carey hooked me up with a very cool opportunity to share my perspective about why I detransitioned with a large group including a lot of medical and mental health professionals serving the transgender community. I’m super excited about it. The topic and time limit made complete sense for the presentation she’s working on, but when I finished making my video, there was a lot I wanted to clarify that didn’t fit inside 3 minutes talking. So here’s a longer version of the script I wrote for that video! At the time when I started to detransition, I was already getting a lot of relief from coping strategies other than transition- relationships with animals, spending a lot of time in nature, connecting with other women with similar experiences, and being in a supportive relationship and having a home environment where I was able to relax. On some level, when I was transitioning at 16, I had thought of “being a woman” as everything I wasn’t- pretty, compliant, content with the way i was treated as a woman and with my female body. I thought that women didn’t ever hate their bodies the way I did or believe they’d be better off as a man. This isn’t true. I learned many women, especially lesbians, have experienced periods of wanting to be men in intense and visceral ways, ways that met the diagnostic criteria for GID or gender dysphoria, but were eventually really glad that they had instead made peace with themselves as one type or another of unconventional women. I learned, from connecting with other women, that womanhood could hold women like me. I could be a woman even though I had a mastectomy and didn’t really like shaving and would generally rather be called Max than Abigail. I (re)learned that I’m a lesbian. People supportive of transition tend to think I’m some kind of nonbinary now, and/or that transition was just another colorful stop on my rainbow of a gender journey. It seems like these people are more invested in fitting my experiences into a framework where they doesn’t challenge any pre-existing beliefs than in actually hearing what I have to say. Women can go through FTM transition, and they may not ultimately describe it as a positive experience, even if they were once enthusiastic about it. I loved the WPATH Standards of Care. I used them to self-advocate in medical offices as a teenager who met the diagnostic criteria for GID, believing I’d kill myself if they didn’t give me what I needed. I didn’t know there were ways to get relief from those feelings that didn’t come from a therapist, endocrinologist, or surgeon. I generally refused to talk to my old gender therapist about anything except wanting to transition. Transition absolutely had some benefits for me. At the time I transitioned, given my lack of alternative coping strategies, inability to trust any mental health professional, and the fact that I did not have access to the support of peers going through something similar, it is possible that the high levels of distress I experienced on a regular basis might have been more likely to result in suicide attempts or completion, had I not transitioned. Passing, hormones, and my double mastectomy facilitated repression of trauma incurred as a result of misogyny and the culture-wide hatred of lesbians. Not having breasts or being otherwise visually identifiable as female by strangers made it much easier to stop thinking about the shitty ways others had treated me for being a butch lesbian, at least for a few years. Having a set of steps to focus on completing in order to acquire some peace of mind gave me hope and a sense of direction for a while, until I had completed all the steps I had wanted to accomplish and was extremely disappointed to find myself still facing pretty much the same issues I had as a teenager. Here’s a post I wrote about why I feel that so many people believing it’s either transition or suicide indicates that professionals serving transgender populations are letting them down in huge ways. I have been diagnosed a fair amount of things, in terms of mental health. Even so… I haven’t talked to a doctor or mental health professional for anything except a bad flu and some phone calls to renew my Adderal prescription in a couple years, and I feel better than I can remember ever feeling in the past. The dynamic of relating to another person as an expert on my body and/or my problems is something I avoid whenever practical now, and it’s working out pretty great for me. I count myself as extremely lucky that I had misgivings about the hysterectomy I was about to schedule a while before I stopped transitioning. I am extremely grateful that, at this point in my life, I can usually stay far away from the fields that I feel did me an awful lot of harm. The history of psychiatry is riddled with examples of medical/psychiatric abuse of non-compliant women that was once regarded as revolutionary. Treatments now widely regarded as unethical were sometimes even sought after by individuals experiencing really tough stuff. An awful lot of my friends who have detransitioned or are otherwise reconciling with their femaleness are lesbians. Our stories are not unrelated to other historical medical treatments intended to “cure” noncompliant behavior in women. I know others who feel their transitions were lifesaving. That’s their story and they’re free to tell it, just like I was free to tell the same story when I believed it to be true. Now, this is my story. I understand why someone would feel transition saved their life.Do others understand that transition can also do profound harm? I didn’t stop transition because I “was never trans”. I stopped because I found other ways of coping that worked better, did less damage, and in my case, allowed me a higher degree of autonomy in that I no longer relied on anything from endocrinologists- a luxury not afforded to those who received hysterectomies as a part of their transition. During my own transition, I was not discernibly “less trans” than any of the other FTMs I knew then, as indicated by the fact that a WPATH member wrote the letters allowing me to access medical treatment, and the reputable Dr Curtis Crane was willing to remove my breasts for cash. There is no screening protocol that would effectively prevent women like me from accessing transition without also excluding individuals who wouldn’t have stopped transition. I doubt there was anything my therapist could have said to dissuade me from transition, either. I can’t experience a trusting relationship with someone who is obviously in a position of authority over me. Detransition wasn’t forced on me by anyone, or by any circumstances. Realizing I could stop transition was extremely challenging at first- I had years of unexpressed emotions to work through when those walls started coming down. Ultimately, though, reconciling with my femaleness has been profoundly healing for me. A lot of detransition, for me, has been about listening to myself, and learning to take the pain I experienced as a result of transition seriously. Paying Dr Curtis Crane to cut away healthy tissue from my body, being seen as a man when I’m not one, side effects from testosterone… I can name the ways they hurt me now. I am grateful for the perspective transition has given me on how the medical-industrial complex fails women and girls in pain. Uncategorized extended!! Here’s the video I made for Carey Callahan (and the others she was working with) to show along with a presentation on detransition at USPATH in Feb 2017!! Incredibly impressed with her for actually showing up there. I’m going to list myself as a USPATH telepresenter on a bunch of resumes now  Approximate transcription: At the time when I started to detransition, I was already getting a lot of relief from coping strategies other than transition- relationships with animals, spending a lot of time in nature, connecting with other women with similar experiences, being in a supportive relationship and having a home environment where I was able to relax. On some level when I was transitioning at 16, I had thought of “being a woman” as everything I wasn’t- pretty, compliant, content with the way I was treated as a woman, and content with my female body. I thought that women didn’t ever hate their bodies the way I did or believe they’d be better off as a man. I learned this wasn’t true. I learned many women, especially lesbians, have experienced periods of wanting to be men in intense and visceral ways, ways that met the diagnostic criteria for GID or gender dysphoria, but that they were eventually really glad that they had instead made peace with themselves as one type or another of unconventional women. I learned, from connecting with other women, that womanhood could hold women like me, that I could be a woman even if I’d had a mastectomy, didn’t really like shaving, and would rather be called Max than Abigail. I learned that I’m a lesbian. I loved the standards of care and used them to self-advocate in medical offices as a teenager who met the diagnostic criteria for GID and really thought I’d kill myself if I didn’t transition. I didn’t know there were ways to get relief from those feelings that didn’t come from a therapist, endocrinologist, or surgeon. I generally refused to talk to my old gender therapist about anything except wanting to transition. I have been diagnosed a lot of ways but haven’t talked to a doctor or mental health professional for almost anything except a bad flu in a couple years, and I feel better than I can remember ever feeling in the past. The dynamic of relating to another person as an expert on my body and/or my problems is something I avoid whenever practical. I count myself as extremely lucky that I had misgivings about the hysterectomy I was about to schedule a while before I stopped transitioning. I am extremely grateful that, at this point in my life, I can usually stay far away from the fields that I feel did me an awful lot of harm. The history of psychiatry is riddled with examples of medical/psychiatric abuse of noncompliant women that was regarded as revolutionary and even sought-after by individuals experiencing really tough stuff. I understand that others feel their transitions were lifesaving, I used to believe this about myself. Do others understand that transition can also do profound harm? Detransition wasn’t forced on me by anyone. This was a realization that was really healing for me, that I could stop transition and it was okay to be a woman the way i was. A lot of detransitioning to me was about listening to myself and believing myself that I had been hurt by this treatment. Uncategorized video for USPATH When I was repressing the hell out of any complicated feelings about transition, it felt like my life would be destroyed if I let myself actually express even a tiny bit of that stuff. Once I started connecting with other women who were up to talk about it, I had this excruciating sense of urgency about it. It felt like I was a balloon about to pop, and I could never release enough to relieve the overwhelming pressure. My whole Cymbalta withdrawal syndrome summer ordeal was pretty helpful here, honestly… I literally could not stop talking about any of this. Even after I stopped being physically sick from the withdrawals, I had entirely out of control mood swings and no control over impulsive speech, to a degree I have never experienced before or since. I spent an awful lot of my waking hours rambling about this stuff to somebody. I’m incredibly grateful that ended (months-long massive personality  changes are really disruptive!) but I’m also pretty grateful that it happened. By the end of it, that feeling of pressure was pretty much gone. For the last few months I’ve felt a lot more like a balloon with absolutely no air in it, which has its own pros and cons. I’m not very energetic or talkative (especially compared to how I was over last summer) but I’m also not freaking the fuck out all the time. Seems like I kind of fast-forwarded through an amount of venting that might have taken me years if I had gone at a remotely reasonable pace. My feelings about transition aren’t something I have to think about all the time anymore. When I was actively repressing everything, getting to a point where I’d let enough out that I was neither actively losing my shit or repressing any feelings about transition was unimaginable. It did not occur to me that this was something I could work through. It felt absolutely, incredibly insurmountable… and at the time, it probably was. I think denial was pretty adaptive here. At that point, I didn’t trust anyone with feelings like that. I wasn’t alone in the world or anything, but the relationships I had were not ones where I was ready to make myself so vulnerable. I’m glad that I bottled everything up until I had the support to handle processing it, and I’m glad that processing enough of it that I don’t have to think about it all the time didn’t actually end up taking the rest of my life. It’s not like I’m done having any new thoughts or feelings on those topics. It’s like I’m done taking a giant piss after holding it very painfully for years. I’m sure I’ll keep having difficult feelings about all kinds of things. Like, my mastiff just died. I am so super not happy about that, but like… I trust the people around me enough that I just cried about it all the time for a week straight, and you know what? I feel a lot better than I did when my yellow lab died in high school and I just held everything in. It’s really nice to be in a situation where repressing everything actually isn’t the only way to cope. Really hoping it lasts. Uncategorized better 