This spoken word poem by Ethan Smith made me go “oof”. I only wish it were longer! Uncategorized FTM poem poetry slam poem slam poetry Spoken Word trans man video Spoken Word: “A Letter to the Girl I Used to Be” I’ve been thinking about this quote by Néstor Perlongher (a gay Argentinean poet & activist): “We don’t want to be persecuted or discriminated against or killed or cured or analyzed or explained or tolerated or understood: we want to be desired.” Lately, I’ve been feeling alternately sad and angry about the cis world, particularly the cis gay male community; I have lots of reasons to be angry, but right now I’m just sad because I feel left out. When I started transitioning, gay men smirked or laughed (or at least looked confused) when I expressed an attraction to guys: they left it very clear that I could never be “one of them”. Now that I “pass” as cis, people assume I’m a cis gay male when I’m in lgbtq spaces, but men still lose interest when they find out I’m trans. I don’t want to be part of a community which has so many problems with inclusion (not just trans inclusion), but I’m still attracted to men, and it would be nice to be desired. I know that some cis men are ok with trans guys, but it’s hard to know who they are. My theory is that most men would answer “no” if asked “would you date a trans man?”, but that many would date a trans man if they found out after getting to know him. If that were true, I’d eventually find someone if I started hitting on large quantities of men. But it’s really tiring; every rejection gets me so down on myself that it takes months for me to regain confidence (plus, I suck at the art of flirting!). It’s not only being trans that makes me feel undesirable: I actually love being trans, and I love my body, though it isn’t always easy in a (cis)sexist world. I don’t feel ugly, exactly, but I do know I’m not terribly attractive (because of my personality, my voice, my inability to dance…). I really identify with this quote by transartorialism: “…sometimes to me it feels like we build our primary bridges into (gender)queer communities by arching our backs in bed, and that makes it so much harder for those of us with bodies and minds and personalities that are not the model of desire in our “communities” and even less so on the outside.” Most of the time I don’t mind being single; family and friends are enough. But every once in a while I see two men together and I feel a longing to have that for myself, and it saddens me to know that it probably won’t happen. Of course, the idea of finding someone is scary, too: I’ve grown wary of cis men, so I’m really apprehensive of trusting them with my body. I usually try to ignore the sadness until it goes away and proceed with life as usual; I wonder if I’ll every break the cycle and actually do something about it. Rants Feeling undesirable Sometimes my legal —female— name feels like a weapon in other people’s mouths. If you know that name, you have power over me: the power to make me feel really bad and uncomfortable. The thing about this weapon, what makes it different from sticks and stones, is that you can wield it unwittingly if you don’t know how it makes me feel. The other special thing about this weapon is that I can defend myself without batting an eye. Eleanor Roosevelt said that “No one can make you feel inferior without your consent”. Well, no one can make me feel female without my consent. If you call me _____ I can feel bad, or I can think that you’re a fool for committing such a silly mistake. I’d rather pick the latter. I just remembered a great post by Renee, where she tells about a group of boys that laughed at her when they noticed she was trans. But instead of blaming herself of for not passing, she blames the kids for being so rude. It’s up to us to feel good about ourselves. Names Personal progress feelings hurting name power self-esteem trans transboy transgender transman The Power of Names That’s what a friend said when I came out to him*: “That’s fun! Now we can play video games together.” Another friend responded in a similar, but more explicitly baffling, way: “Neat. Now you have to be sexist.” So now both these friends are trying to teach me about being a man.Which is kind of weird, because I’m not transitioning in order to change my personality: I’m transitioning socially and physically so that my body, name and pronouns fit my inner gender identity. I never had to try to feel like a guy. Besides, I couldn’t be consciously sexist. I may not know how it feels to be a woman, but I know how it feels to be seen as a woman and treated like a woman; I know how it feels when society/family/school/media try to turn you into a certain type of woman. It can get ugly. I didn’t want to be that kind of woman, but I don’t want to be like the stereotypical man either, violent and insensitive and macho. There are so many kinds of masculinities: I’d like to pick my own. At the same time, it’s nice to be seen as “one of the guys”, at least in part (I don’t think my friends suddenly started seeing me as male). Maybe, if they stop trying to teach me how to be a man, I can teach them a thing or two about women. I’ve spent years undercover among them: I think I learned a thing or two that might be useful for straight guys (I may be totally wrong, though). ————————————————————– *I said I was changing my sex, even though that’s a grossly inaccurate statement, because I wanted him to understand; when I try saying I’m transgender, most people don’t have a clue what I’m talking about. More about coming out in another post. Genders in everyday life Personal progress coming out femininity FTM gender masculinity sex change sexism stereotypes transgender transition transman “I’m changing my sex.” “Fun!” I started blogging inspired by all the awesome transmale blogs out there, like Tboy Jacky, Gender Outlaw, GenoTypo and Cheerful Megalomaniac; lesbian blogs like Sugarbutch and Lesbian Dad; and other gender blogs like Genderfork, My Life as a Drag King and Being a Teenage Crossdresser. I haven’t found any blogs by Argentinean transmen; in the whole Spanish language, I found only one transmale blog by a guy from Spain. When I started this blog, I didn’t know any transpeople in real life yet; I wanted to be part of some kind of community.  I decided to write in English so I could share with all the people I’ve mentioned and others I might have forgotten. The idea of having an English-language blog was also tempting because it’s less likely to be found by people I know. Until this month, I hadn’t shared it with any of my friends. It’s easier to write about potentially embarrassing things if you’re sure that your acquaintances won’t find out — like the time I packed when I was 6 years old. But recently I realized that I’m not embarrassed by anything I’ve said so far. So last week I started a blog in Spanish and it’s visible on my Facebook page. I want to come out to my schoolmates for once and for all so I can just get it over with. I don’t know if it’s a good or efficient way of coming out, but I need to be comfortable at school. I hope some people, at least, will get the point and call me by my new name and pronouns. Personal progress blogging blogs english gender language spanish transgender Why I started blogging in English Even without having undergone surgery –gender-related or otherwise– I have scars. I have holes in my earlobes since birth, because since then I was seen as female and received piercings traditionally reserved for female bodies. I have a mark on my foot from wearing sandals a couple of years ago, my last attempt at dressing like a woman. And now, after I bind my chest to create a more satisfying appearance, little pink lines remain on my skin; after a few hours they disappear. I see these scars as a history of my life, more or less indelible on my body. They’re distinct points marking the femininity imposed on a baby that probably screamed and cried in defense of hir physical integrity, and and the attempt at femininity by a teenager who no longer complained because ze had internalized social norms. Now they’re lines that mark temporary bodily modification, and they’ll be lines that mark my will to undergo surgery. Other choose to get tattoos to serve the same function; I choose to see my “tattoos” without resentment. Childhood Personal progress binding Body gender scars trans transgender transition Scars Every now and then, someone arrives at this blog searching for erotic pictures of nude transboys. I hope these people are young transgender men looking for info, and not cisgender people wanting to get turned on; especially considering that all the searches are for transboys and not for transmen. I’d rather not be the object of someone’s fetish. I guess it should be nice to know that there are people interested in dating transgender individuals. A lesbian friend once asked around, and she found out that all kinds of people —from lesbians and gay men to straight women— think transmen are hot. She says that even after transitioning we have a special, gentle way of being that comes from being raised as girls (ok, that’s a sweeping statement to make, but I was flattered). I’m glad to know that my dating prospects won’t be damaged by my gender, but I think I’ll have to watch out for people willing to date me just because I’m trans. I hope I’ll always remember that I’m lovable because of who I am, and who I am is not (just) a transman. Genders in everyday life beauty dating fetish love self-esteem transboy transgender transman We’re beautiful I couldn’t resist posting this video by Andrea Gibson, the author of Swingset. Some of her words could have come right out of my mouth (had I been such a fine poet, that is): “It’s not that I thought I’d grow up to be a man; I just never thought that I’d grow up to be a woman either. From what I could tell neither of those categories fit me, but believe me, I knew from a very young age never to say “Hey dad, this Adam or Eve thing isn’t working for me; I mean, what about all the kinds of people in between?” “No, I’m not gay. No, I’m not straight, and I’m sure as hell not bisexual, damn it!”  She rocks. My transcription, after the jump. When I was a kid I would sometimes secretly call myself Andrew. Would tug at the crotch of my pants the way only pubescent boys do, ran around pounding on my bare chest like Tarzan. It’s not that I thought I’d grow up to be a man; I just never thought that I’d grow up to be a woman either. From what I could tell neither of those categories fit me, but believe me, I knew from a very young age never to say “Hey dad, this Adam or Eve thing isn’t working for me; I mean, what about all the kinds of people in between?” In the third grade, Lynnette Lyons asked me where all my Barbies were, lied and told her I’d got in trouble so my mom took ’em away. I didn’t dare say “Barbies suck, Lynnette! And for that matter, Tommy, so does GI Joe.” I wanna grow into something none of us has ever seen before, and gender is just one of the ways we’re boxed in and labeled, before we’re ever able to speak who we dream we are, who we believe we’ll become, like drumbeats ever changing their rhythm. I am living today as someone I had not yet become yesterday, and tonight I will borrow only pieces of who I was today to carry with me to tomorrow. No, I’m not gay. No, I’m not straight, and I’m sure as hell not bisexual, damn it! I am whatever I am when I am it, loving whoever you are when the stars shine and whoever you’ll be when the sun rises. Yes, I like girls. Yes, I like boys. Yes, I like boys who like boys; I like girls who wear toys and girls who don’t; girls who don’t call themselves girls; crew cuts or curls and that really bad hair phase in between. I like steam rising from the body of a one-night stand; I like holding hands for three months before kissing; I like wishing your body was Saturn, my body thousand rings wrapped around you. You wanted to be a Buddhist nun once; last night you held my cervix between your fingers. I thank gods I don’t believe in for your changing. Tell me we’ll be naming our children “Beautiful” and nothing else. Tell Barbie she can go now. Tell GI Joe to put his gun down and find a boyfriend or a girlfriend or a girl-boy-friend; fuck it, y’all, GI Joe just needs a friend. I mean, he’s plastic and not even the kind of plastic that bends. I want to bend in a thousand directions like the sun does, like love does, like time stopped so the hands of the clock could hold each other; and we held each other like I held these words for too many years on the tip of my tongue. I am my mother’s daughter. I am midnight sun. You can find me on the moon waxing and waning, my heart full of petals, every single one begging “love me, love me, love me, whoever I am, whoever I become. Love me, love me, love me.” –Poem by Andrea Gibson Celebration Genderqueer Links Spoken Word, Music, Arts Words and terms andrea gibson Queer slam poetry Spoken Word transgender video Visual Arts “Andrew” by Andrea Gibson This week, thealeticia wrote about The Pink Butch Test: “I will only date butches who are okay with pink.” She wants to transgress the boundaries of pinkness. Oh yeah! Also, check out the International Bill of Gender Rights: The IBGR is a theoretical construction which has no force of law… However, individuals are free to adopt the truths and principles expressed in the IBGR, and to lead their lives accordingly.  In this fashion, the truths expressed in the IBGR will liberate and empower humankind in ways and to an extent beyond the reach of legislators, judges, officials and diplomats. It lists rights for everyone –not only trans people–, including the right to define gender identity and express it freely, employment issues, body modification, medical care, having children, and sexual expression. I think it should mention education somewhere, but it’s a pretty nice document anyhow. Have a nice weekend! Links butch human rights pink trans rights transgender Saturday Night Links Yesterday I rode around the city with my camera, stopping to take pictures every now and then. I wasn’t binding: I needed the full capacity of my lungs, plus I didn’t plan on meeting anyone. I guess I looked like a girl, because while I was stopped, a car went by and a kid shouted from the backseat: “torta!” Torta means cake in Spanish. In Argentina, it also means “dyke.” For a second I was petrified, watching the car move away, the kid still looking at me through the back window. Then I waved. He waved back. I wasn’t offended by the remark; I consider it an honor to be compared to my dyke sisters (except for the whole being-a-woman part). Waving was a way of showing him that he hadn’t affected me; a way of showing him that, for some people, gay is okay. Plus, it’s a friendly gesture. You can’t stop hate with more hate. But I wonder what his waving back meant. Was it another mean gesture? Why did he shout at me in the first place? Was he really homophobic, or was he just having fun without thinking about what he was saying? What did his parents do about it? Was he imitating them? If he was mimicking something he had seen, maybe he didn’t mean to hurt me —maybe he wasn’t thinking about my feelings at all— so maybe when I waved, he just responded to my friendliness. This is the first time I’ve been called “dyke” while on my own. When I was with my (ex)girlfriend we used to hear it sometimes. But this kid didn’t see me with anybody, so he didn’t really know my orientation: it was gender-phobia more than homophobia. I waved to prove that I hadn’t been affected; but on my way back, it was getting dark, and I pedaled faster whenever I crossed a group of young people, especially if they were mostly male (and therefore stronger than me). So homo-trans-phobia ended up causing ageism/sexism on my behalf. Where does the chain of fear stop? Genders in everyday life Words and terms Dyke gender phobia harassment homophobia transphobia A “dyke” on a bike I recently bought my first men’s polo shirt. It’s kinda huge –most stores don’t carry XS–, but  I love it. Yesterday, however, it caused me some trouble. I went to my grandmother’s house wearing my lovely polo shirt. As usual, she started scrutinizing me. She noticed the buttons on my chest and her face darkened ominously: “That’s a boy’s shirt.” “Noo, it isn’t,” I lied. She showed me her own shirt: the holes were on the left and the buttons on the right. “These are girl buttons –she said–. You have to look for shirts like this.” This is the most ridiculous gender rule I’ve heard in a while, right up there with gendered colors and toys. I’d forgotten all about it: when I was six, my mother explained that rich women used to be dressed by servants; buttons were placed in such a way to make the servant’s job easier. Men’s clothes buttoned the other way because they dressed themselves. (Supposedly, it’s easier to button one way than the other, at least if you’re right handed.) While we’re at it, why did only men dress themselves? Was it because women were considered weak, or was it suspicious to have a man touch another –naked– man? Sexism or homophobia? Two women touching wasn’t suspect, of course, because everyone knew that lesbians didn’t exist. And what about women who didn’t have servants: were their buttons placed for their own comfort, or did their clothes button up like the rich women’s? This rule should be obsolete by now. I didn’t imagine that clothes makers would keep on making shirts that are harder to button up by yourself. But watch out: someone might still be policing your buttons. Genders in everyday life buttons clothes gender gender differences gender police gender rules transgender Boy buttons, girl buttons Several trans politics blogs have been celebrating this statement on trans rights by the Council of Europe’s Commissioner for Human Rights. I just read the whole thing carefully: it’s extremely well done. I love language and its subtleties so I usually find annoying little details in texts on trans issues. Not this time. Take a look at this: “Some people seem to have a problem with the mere existence of human beings whose outer expression of their inner gender identity is not the same as their gender determined at birth. Aggression against transgender persons cannot however be excused as resulting from ignorance or lack of education” Yippee, he said that the contradiction is between a transperson’s gender expression/identity and the gender assigned at birth, and not between their gender and sex! Many transpeople feel fine about their sex and have no wish to change it, just like he acknowledges further on: “To require surgery as a prerequisite to enjoy legal recognition of one’s gender identity ignores the fact that such operations are not always desired, medically possible, available, and affordable.” Cisgender people —even some transsexual people— aren’t always aware of this. Again, thumbs up to the commissioner! I also like his definition of gender identity: “Gender identity is understood to refer to each person’s deeply felt internal and individual experience of gender, which may or may not correspond with the sex assigned at birth, including the personal sense of the body (which may involve, if freely chosen, modification of bodily appearance or function by medical, surgical or other means) and other expressions of gender, including dress, speech and mannerisms.” And, “There is no excuse for not immediately granting this community their full and unconditional human rights. Council of Europe Member States should take all necessary concrete action to ensure that transphobia is stopped and that transgender persons are no longer discriminated against in any field.” May it be. Activism, Politics and Mass Media Legal gender Words and terms commissioner for human rights council of europe human rights language lgbt trans politics trans rights transgender transsexuality Trans-friendly language Argentina’s gender identity law went live over a month ago but I still haven’t changed my legal name and gender. I needed time to mull over the decision and do a little mourning, though I think I’m finally ready. Every step of my transition was deliberate, carefully thought-out. I knew full well that I didn’t have to bind, or wear clothes from the men’s department, or take T, or have surgery unless I really wanted to (or needed to). Transness isn’t a package that you buy whole. And I know that my ID says nothing about me as a person: not changing it is a valid option. There are a few trans people in my life who are choosing to keep their old IDs even though they publicly transitioned years ago. For me, changing my name legally is fraught with emotions, especially because I have to modify my birth certificate before updating anything else. In part, I feel like I’m erasing my past, dishonoring the person I’ve been, pegging myself like a butterfly in the little “male” box. It’s like reliving what I felt when I socially transitioned, and again when I physically transitioned. Once again, I have to remind myself that change is part of life, that it’s ok to move forward, that no change in appearance or documentation can take away my past without my consent. On the one hand, correcting my ID is a no-brainer because I’ve been living as male for a long time and it’s worked for me so far; on the other hand, it feels like a big step because it’s my final one (I might get a hysterectomy eventually, but only if it’s medically necessary and it won’t be about transitioning). It’s the only thing left that marks me as visibly trans, and though being visible can be uncomfortable, it has its bright side too: some people are deeply moved by knowingly meeting a trans man for the first time and I’d like to think that the encounter makes them more trans-friendly. Having to share something so intimate has also brought me closer to some people, like teachers, who I might not have approached personally otherwise. Ultimately, I know I need to change my documentation to function in daily life. I avoid situations where I need to show ID –like doctor’s offices– because it’s awkward and people get suspicious; at school I’m constantly afraid of discrimination and being “outed” without my consent. I guess I could handle it if I were more self-confident and willing to disclose, but I feel prepared to move on and save my fuel for other battles. I’m ready. Legal gender Names gender marker ID legal name name name change sex marker The weight of a name change Photography Jen Rosenstein has a beautiful portfolio including a Transformational Project. There are transfolk among the portraits, too; I recognized the Tender Hearted guy (Rocco) from Kael T Block‘s xxboys. Not safe for work: bare chests abound! One of the transmale models said: I had originally intended to just pose in my jeans and boots without a shirt but the morning of the shoot I was looking in the mirror at my reflection in a pair of black boxer briefs. “F**k it,” I thought, “I’m just gonna pose nude…I’m proud of my body…I own who I am today!” JeongMee Yoon’s Pink and Blue project is a series of photos depicting a boy or a girl surrounded by all their blue or pink possessions. It’s kind of eerie. In an interview, the photographer said: Girls train subconsciously and unconsciously to wear the color pink in order to look feminine… Some parents did not want pink colors, but the kids want it. Also, most boys did not have obsession about blue colors. Videos LGBtotheT AtoZ is an alphabetical collection of short videos narrating “biographies, pivotal historic moments and critical contemporary issues facing the trans community”. They’re pretty shallow, in my opinion, but good for a quick intro to new subjects. For instance, I hadn’t ever heard of the Dewey’s Lunch Counter protest, a trans protest that happened years before the Stonewall riots. This series come from the same channel that made Gender Rebel, a documentary about three genderqueer female-bodied people, one of whom turns out to be FTM. I managed to watch it some time ago, but now I can’t because I’m outside of the US (there’s copyright issues). Hmph. Me Genderfork published my profile. If you still haven’t visited Genderfork, do: in my opinion, it’s the most important site for genderqueer people. It started out as an androgynous photo site, but it turned into a great, thoughtful community about fluidity, questioning and androgyny. Also, my coming out story is up at the Coming Out Stories site. Links Spoken Word, Music, Arts coming out documentary photography videos Links for the weekend …which spells out trouble when you’re uncomfortable with your body. And last week I went to swimming pools on two succesive days: first with my closest friends and then to a larger pool party. Everybody knew I was female, but that didn’t mean I was willing to don women’s swimwear. Luckily, my body image isn’t too bad. My biggest peeve concerns my hips and rear end, but I’m ok as long as I don’t look at them in the mirror. And I love my hairy calves, so I enjoy wearing shorts as long as my family isn’t around: my lovely hirsute legs would disgust them. I rescued a pair of my dad’s old swimming trunks, so dressing from the waist down was easy. That leaves the issue of what to do with The Chest. Looking back, the solution was easy: I only had to bring along an extra cotton bandage —which is what I bind with— so I could change into it afterwards. That way I could just jump into the pool wearing a big old shirt without my lumpy chest showing. That would have been simple and perfect, although I never exercise while binding: it’s unsafe and uncomfortable. Just chilling in the water would have been ok, probably. I didn’t have enough time to buy a spare bandage, so I had to improvise. First came my friend’s pool. Since I only had the bandage I was binding with, I took it off so it would stay dry and jumped in. I was fine while in the water, although when I got out my shirt clung to my body (wet t-shirt party, anyone?) The next day, at the pool party, I took my binder off again but I ended up staying in the shallow end, keeping my chest dry. Luckily, my shirt hid my breasts pretty well. I must have looked odd, though: my unsuspecting classmates kept offering me their extra bikini tops, which was kind but awkward. It’s funny how clueless they are. I thought my binded chest and proud superhairy legs shouted “MAN!” Maybe they just shout “liberated flat-chested woman.” Or “man who would wear a bikini.” Genders in everyday life binding FTM hiding breasts hiding chest pool swimming trans transboy transgender transman Swimming means scanty clothing I love this spoken-word poem by Andrea Gibson about the question “Are you a boy or a girl?” My transcription is after the jump. If you like it –and I know you will!– she also has a poem called Andrew about being genderqueer.  So, I teach in a preschool. Hehe… I make a goddamn difference, now what about you. That’s one point I had to make before I read this poem. The second point is, I usually have hair that is much much shorter than this. That’s all you need to know. “Are you a boy or a girl?” he asks, staring up from all three feet of his pudding face grandeur, and I say “Dylan, you’ve been in this class for three years and you still don’t know if I’m a boy or a girl?” And he says “Uh-uh.” And I say “Well, at this point, I don’t really think it matters, do you?” And he says “Uhhhm, no. Can I have a push on the swing?” And this happens every day. It’s a tidal wave of kindergarten curiosity rushing straight for the rocks of me, whatever I am. And the class, when we discuss the Milky Way galaxy, the orbit of the Sun around the Earth… or whatever. Jupiter, Saturn, Mars, and kids, do you know that some of the stars we see when we look up in the sky are so far away, they’ve already burned out? What do you think of that? Timmy? “Umm… my mom says that even though you got hairs that grow from your legs, and the hairs on your head grow short and poky, and that you smell really bad, like my dad, that you’re a girl.” “Thank you, Timmy.” And so it goes. On the playground, she peers up at me from behind her pink power puff sunglasses and then asks, “Do you have a boyfriend?” And I say no, and she says “Oh, do you have a girlfriend?” And I say “No, but if by some miracle, twenty years from now, I ever finally do, then I’ll definitely bring her by to meet you. How’s that?” “Okay. Can I have a push on the swing?” And that’s the thing. They don’t care. They don’t care. Us, on the other hand… My father sitting across the table at Christmas dinner, gritting his teeth over his still-full plate, his appetite ripped away by the intrusion of my haircut, “What were you thinking? You used to be such a pretty girl!” Frat boys, drunken, screaming, leaning out of the windows of their daddys’ SUVs, “Hey! Are you a faggot or a dyke?” And I wonder what would happen if I met up with them in the middle of the night. Then of course there’s always the somehow not-quite-bright enough fluorescent light of the public restroom, “Sir! Sir, do you realize this is the ladies’ room?” “Yes, ma’am, I do, it’s just that I didn’t feel comfortable sticking this tampon up my penis in the men’s room.” But the best, the best is always the mother at the market, sticking up her nose while pushing aside her daughter’s wide eyes, whispering “Don’t stare, it’s rude.” And I want to say, “Listen, lady, the only rude thing I see is your paranoid parental hand pushing aside the best education on self that little girl’s ever gonna get, living with your Maybelline lips, stairmaster hips, synthetic kiwi-vanilla smelling  beauty; so why don’t you take your pinks and blues, your boy-girl rules and shove them in that car with your fucking issue of Cosmo, because tomorrow, I start my day with twenty-eight minds who know a hell of a lot more than you. And if I show up in a pink frilly dress, those kids won’t love me any more, or less.” “Hey, are you a boy or a — never mind, can I have a push on the swing?” And some day, y’all, when we grow up, it’s all gonna be that simple. –Poem by Andrea Gibson Genderqueer Genders in everyday life Humor Links Spoken Word, Music, Arts confusion Dyke gender Lesbian lgbt Queer slam poetry Spoken Word trans transgender video Visual Arts wrong bathroom Swingset On Flickr there are images from a trans book project that combines people’s portraits and words. One transman’s letter really got to me. Here’s part of it: When you are young, you can be who you are, and keep it a “secret” from everyone who tells you that you are wrong, and you survive. Puberty and the mirror, however, quickly become your worst nightmare. You look in the mirror and YOU see what everyone was talking about. –From Transgender Book Project Exactly! I didn’t feel trans earlier because I didn’t look at myself in the mirror, even after puberty. I thought it was really superficial to look at oneself and I made a point of not checking my appearance whenever I passed a reflective surface, unlike everyone else. Later, when I started dressing more masculinely*, I could tolerate my image. But whenever I caught my reflection by accident, if my body shape was noticeable, something still felt amiss. Now that I feel comfortable with my male gender identity, I’m coming to terms with my body. I will start hormone therapy as soon as possible and I probably will pursue chest surgery. But I know that my present body doesn’t make me any less of a man. * I have my ex-girlfriend to thank for this. She was the first gay friend I had; I only accepted myself as queer after meeting her. That led to a huge gender liberation which ended in self-discovery. But that’s a whole new post. Thanks, P!  =) And a happy new year to all. Links Personal progress Spoken Word, Music, Arts body image FTM mirror quote transgender transman words Mirror, mirror “We don’t want to be persecuted or discriminated against or killed or cured or analyzed or explained or tolerated or understood: we want to be desired.” -Néstor Perlongher (gay Argentinean writer)  Original Spanish: “No queremos que nos persigan ni que nos discriminen ni que nos maten ni que nos curen ni que nos analicen ni que nos expliquen ni que nos toleren ni que nos comprendan: lo que queremos es que nos deseen“. -Néstor Perlongher I especially like the part where Perlongher objects to being explained or tolerated: both actions seem pretty condescending to me (unless we’re doing the explaining). I don’t usually like being in the presence of people who tolerate me as if I were a nuisance they’re kind enough to bear. I demand respect. And if possible, I’d like people to enjoy my company. Maybe even desire me. (According to definr, to tolerate is “to put up with something or somebody unpleasant”; although one definition of tolerance is “willingness to recognize and respect the beliefs or practices of others”) During my school’s Queer Arts Festival, there was a play that ended with the actors unfolding a huge banner with this phrase on it, while they sang a translation of Kimya Dawson’s Loose Lips. Strong combination:  “We won’t stop until somebody calls the cops/ and even then we’ll start again and just pretend that / nothing ever happened” and “If you want to burn yourself, remember that I love you / If you want to cut yourself, remember that I love you / If you want to kill yourself, remember that I love you / Call me up before you’re dead, we can make some plans instead / Send me an IM, I’ll be your friend.” Celebration desire FTM lgbt perlongher Queer respect tolerance transgender We don’t want… This was an eventful week for me. I want to stay positive, so I’ll tell one good thing, one frustrating, and end with another good thing. CONTEXT. The whole Diversity Commission was invited to meet some international visitors who came to Argentina through an LGBT-organizations exchange program. It was a unique experience: we got to meet people from Germany, Brazil, Russia, Turkey and Ghana, as well as people from around the country. ONE. During Pride I met a transman in person for the first time, but we hardly got to talk. This week, I spent two whole days with another FTM person! We didn’t get to speak much this time either, though: he knew only Turkish and German. Ich spreche kein Deutsch (okay, I know a few words, but not enough to carry a meaningful conversation. And I know even less Turkish). Still, it was an amazing experience. I thought I could spot another transman; I actually thought another guy from the exchange contingent was trans –one of the Argentinean organizers– because he was short and worked at a trans clinic. It never occurred to me that this muscular, hairy dude could ever have looked like a woman. I stand corrected. TWO. At one point I decided to ask the trans-clinic guy about his work; specifically, how the legal system is in his province, trans-wise. While I was talking with him, several other people came over to listen to us. I didn’t mind: I don’t usually hide my trans identity and I don’t always pass, anyway. But no one understood our conversation until I clarified I was FTM: nobody had realized I was trans! So I outed myself, but I didn’t really care; I was among LGBTQA people, after all. But everyone started treating me differently afterwards. They started messing up their pronouns without even realizing it or apologizing: they started seeing me as a woman. I felt that their whole attitude towards me had changed, although pronouns are the only thing I could pin down clearly. What the fuck? I know it’s hard for old friends to see me as male, but these people thought I was cisgender man! Maybe they started seeing my feminine features when they learnt I was born female? Perhaps I should avoid coming out in the future. I enjoyed being “one of the guys” so much: for nearly the first time, I felt truly comfortable in a group of people. I wish it could have stayed that way. THREE. Enough ranting. So I talked with this man who works at a trans clinic. He told me that where he lives –in another province– you don’t need a gender dysphoria diagnosis for hormones. It might even be possible to start treatments while under 18! I don’t plan to do anything before clearing things up with my parents, so I’ll probably have to wait anyway; but it would be nice to receive testosterone without getting diagnosed as identity-disordered. Even if I have to travel to the next province. Genders in everyday life Personal progress FTM gender hormone therapy pronouns testosterone trans transboy transgender Exchanges This is a letter I’m going to send to a local LGBT magazine. Thomas Beatie is pregnant again, and we can hear renewed criticism from the media and from within the trans community itself: some accuse him of mishandling the situation with journalists. But I want to thank Thomas for the courage implied in commiting himself, in visibilizing the transmasculine community, in spite of the predictable misunderstanding by the general population. All transmen who decide to give birth –Thomas certainly wasn’t the first– risk the very male identity they’ve worked so hard to build by taking up such a traditionally female task. They don’t only risk that: they might be fired from work or denied paternity leave; their medical insurance may not cover costs; they’re easy targets for transphobic violence. Plus, by abstaining from testosterone therapy until birth, they accept a temporary return to a feminine body accentuated by the pregnancy (an almost unimaginable sacrifice for someone counting the days until therapy, like me). I want to thank Thomas: as the first transman I could see, I could hear, who made transmasculinity real for me, he catalyzed my acceptance of my own gender identity. And his fatherhood –labor of love, as he calls it– restored my hopes of having my own children someday. Even if, for now, I don’t want to be the pregnant one. Activism, Politics and Mass Media FTM gender lgbt pregnant man Queer Thomas Beatie trangender transman transsexuality Go, go, Thomas Beatie I turned 17 a couple of months ago and two different members of my family gave me pink pajamas. For different cultural reasons*, it’s hard to exchange presents down here; so the pajamas are still in my room, haunting me. This weekend, I got two more belated gifts.  One family member gave me a third set of sleepwear, only this time it was a nightgown. A pink nightgown. Plus, my parents invaded my room while I was out: they installed a full-length mirror in my closet. I think I look fine from the shoulders up, but I keenly avoid looking at my chest and hips and girly behind. Thanks, mom and dad, for reminding me I’m female. I’ve been trying to think of worse gifts for a transman but I couldn’t come up with much. I could’ve recieved makeup (which could be used for face-painting, at least), lacey underwear (got that last year), a book on being a Real Woman (which might be sociologically interesting, albeit appaling), or a purse. At first, I felt guilty because these people spent –wasted– money on me with their best intentions in mind. I might have appreciated the presents had I been different — that is, cisgender. I wasn’t sad about not getting things I liked; I hope I’m never that materialistic. I just wish people would stop buying me identity-denying gifts which leave me sorry for the giver and make me feel invisible. I wish people would stop giving me presents at all. No, wait — I wish my old friends would call me “he” ; that would be the best gift ever. Now I can laugh at my sheer bad luck. I mean, three sets of pink pajamas? What are the odds?! ————————————————————————————————— *In Argentina, stores don’t give you your money back. Both pairs of pajamas were bought in “women’s” stores, so I’d only exchange one girly thing for another. Plus, I’m not sure where these people shopped, and I don’t really want to ask. Genders in everyday life Personal progress birthday femininity FTM gifts presents trans transboy transgender transkid transman Worst gifts for a transboy Suddenly, I’m able to start the process of legal and physical transition. I’ve mentioned sometimes going to an lgbt youth group. Last week, one of the coordinators took me aside to ask me about my transition process. She said that, as a minor, I can’t do much without parental consent; but I can do the requisite three months of therapy to get diagnosed as gender dysphoric. After that, I can start hormone therapy. I spoke to one of the center’s psychiatrists and his advice was to do the diagnosis through my own psychologist, since she already knows me. My psychologist sort of agreed, although she wants to clear things up with my parents first. Who knows how long that will take. But at least I’m inching forward. So, where’s the politics? The issue is that I’m not particularly happy about being diagnosed with a mental illness. I believe that trans people, or genderqueer people, or anyone dissatisfied with their body, should be able to alter it without having to prove themselves to a doctor or a judge (in Argentina, for surgery and ID changes, you have to show a judge that you’re “trans enough”). I especially disagree with one of the criteria for dysphoria, which is that you have to suffer in order to deserve treatment.  It would be –sort of– easy to stick to the system despite my opinions. I wouldn’t even have to lie for the diagnosis: my psychologist knows my whole twisted doubt-ridden history, and she considers me trans anyway. But I know of some activists who avoided the system, waiting 10 (ten!) years for ID changes, working the streets to pay their surgery and hormones. That’s being loyal to one’s ideals. With these people in mind, I feel pretty hypocritical. But I really want to change my body. As soon as possible. ——————————————————– PS: For more about the political implications of lying to the “gatekeepers”, see Elliot Long‘s essay from the Beyond Masculinity anthology (especially here, from the third paragraph). ——————————————————– PPS: Through Going Somewhere I found this funny and insightful essay. The author, receiving hir parents for the first time after chest surgery, makes hirself a pair of “pudding tits” so they won’t notice; this makes hir think about bodies, identities and how we are read by others. What I hope for is a way in which we can actively articulate, rewrite, translate, and metaphorize, both in terms of verbal and bodily language, in order to continue the long project of fighting ourselves into existence. Activism, Politics and Mass Media Links Personal progress FTM gatekeepers gender dysphoria gender identity disorder GID hormone replacement therapy hormone therapy politics testosterone transgender transition The Politics of Testosterone I changed the blog’s layout, as you may have noticed. Personal changes I’ve been taking huge steps forward, trans-wise. I started binding daily over two months ago, and I’ve just talked to my psychologist about getting diagnosed as gender dysphoric. I also started going to an lgbt youth group whenever possible, and yesterday I went to a trans group for the first time. I was the only FTM there, but it was a great experience. Some of the people were so inspiring! One woman couldn’t take hormones because of health issues, but she didn’t let that get in the way of being herself. Another lady told me that, since transitioning, everything has been so much easier. It’s nice, knowing I’m in such good company as a transperson. Links and resources  I’ve been adding all sorts of links and resources. My interest in anthropology and sociology landed me at Sociological Images (Seeing is Believing): briefly-commented media images that represent cultural attitudes towards different subjects; for instance, the construction of gender, transgender, sexual orientation and intersex. Through Sugarbutch I found Embodiment: A Portrait of Queer Life in America: great photographs of diverse queer people (trans, genderqueer, butch, femme and more). Check out Gender Rebel: a documentary about three female-born genderqueer people, one of whom is physically transitioning. I also found lots of information for people who are questioning their gender, or who are coming out; I wish I could have read this stuff a few months ago! You can find it all at the links/resources page. Links Personal progress coming out FTM gender questioning Resources trans transboy transgender transman Updates and links Argentina’s gender identity law went live this week, which means –among other things– that we can now easily change our name and legal gender. So exciting! On Monday, Facebook exploded with pictures and updates from happy friends who had gone to start their paperwork. Here are some photos from the news so you can get a taste of what it was like:     (clicking on the images will take you to the source) I love how many people went in groups, and treated it as a celebration, not a mere administrative formality. I haven’t started my own paperwork yet, but I will soon :-) Activism, Politics and Mass Media Celebration Legal gender gender identity law news pictures Big smiles I bet you all know who Harvey Milk was. I bet you know that he was the first openly gay person to be elected to a public office; that he was murdered by Dan White, fellow supervisor; that White only recieved 5 years in prison; that 3000 people rioted protesting such an unfair sentence. Maybe you’ve heard what he said shortly before dying: “If a bullet should enter my brain, let that bullet destroy every closet door.” Tomorrow, it will be thirty years since Harvey Milk died. But his spirit is alive among us, whether we are gay and/or trans. What moves me most about Harvey Milk are his own words. Just listen to this from his own mouth:   Somewhere… there is a young gay person who suddenly realizes that he or she is gay; knows that if the parents find out, they’d be tossed out of the house; the classmates would torture the child; and the Anita Bryants and John Briggs are doing their bit on TV. That child has several options: staying in the closet, suicide. And then one day that child might open up the paper and it says “Homosexual voted to San Francisco” and there are two new options. Option is to go to California, or stay in San Antonio and fight. That last part really gets to me. Because I know that, in Argentina, I don’t have too many rights as a transgender person. I know that my daily life might be easier someplace else, where people know and understand trans issues. But after listening to Harvey Milk, how could I just leave, how could I abandon all my trans brothersisters, with a clean conscience? I think I have to stay here, and fight. —————————————————- Rest of the speech (sorry if I transcribed anything incorrectly): Two days after I was elected I got a phone call; the voice was quite young. It was from Altoona, Pennsylvania and the person said: thanks. And you’ve got to elect gay people, so that that young child, and the thousands and thousands like that child, know that there’s hope for a better world; there’s hope for a better tomorrow. Without hope, not only gays, but those Blacks, and the Asians, the disabled, the seniors, the us’s, the us’s; without hope, the us’s give up. I know that you cannot live on hope alone; but without it, life is not worth living. And you, and you, and you, gotta give them hope. Whoa, Harvey Milk’s words are powerful. You can read some more fragments of speeches at Wikipedia. Also, check out the trailer of the Milk movie. “His life changed history. His courage changed lives.” Thanks to LesbianDad for the video. Activism, Politics and Mass Media closet coming out Harvey Milk hope inspiration lgbt speech speeches Harvey Milk I’ve always wanted to do stuff; help the lgbt movement forward. I think I’m finally in a situation where I can advance lgbt issues -especially trans issues- at my secondary school. Around April, a couple of kids and I founded a Diversity Commission within the Student Center. We didn’t do much throughout the year, but last week –which happened to be the last schoolweek of this schoolyear– was HUGE. My school hosted a weekful of queer activities, including an art festival, music, plays, workshops, presentations, tons of stuff. It’s the first time something this big and queer takes place in a school. Several journalists and photographers came to see and ask questions. I gave a speech which I’ll post later. It was all organized by Argentina’s two most important LGBTQIA organizations –working separately– and we, from the Diversity Commission, planned some stuff too. But most importantly, lots of students were interested. Some even want to work with the Diversity Commission in the future. I really hope the visibility helps young people who are questioning or insecure.  Next year, if everything goes well, we’ll seriously change the school atmosphere. On the cultural/social level, we’re planning on student art expos and maybe a few large, conceptual art installations. On the institutional/political level, I want to push inclusive sex ed. This year, the Student Center managed to make sex ed mandatory within Health class; we need to make sure that kids learn to protect themselves with same-sex partners (at the very least) and that they understand non-heteronormative genders and sexualities (which would be ideal). And now, for my most cherished project: I want trans students to be able to use their chosen names. The University of Buenos Aires (UBA) already has a nice system we could adopt, where the chosen name is associated to the legal name; but only the chosen name appears on teacher’s lists and stuff. If the principal totally rejects the idea, an lgbt organization already offered their legal support. I just hope that, by then, I also have my parents’ support. Activism, Politics and Mass Media Legal gender lgbt activism lgbt issues queer week secondary school sex ed student activism trans activism transgender Oops… I think I’m an activist Kids have a funny attitude towards gender. Most parents gender them like heck even before they’re born — they ask the doctor what sex the baby is, buy stuff accordingly, paint the room pink or blue. But then those same kids equal gender with small details, and not with body types. Or at least that’s my conclusion after a couple of incidents: Whenever I go out with my parents, I try to look as much as a girl as possible, so people will read me as female. And, when these two incidents happened, I still had long hair. Both situations were almost the same: we were at the house of my parents’ friends, and the kid of the family pulled me down to their height. “Are you a boy or a girl?” they each whispered into my ear. “I’m a girl.” “Oh.” Pause. “Then why aren’t you wearing earrings?” or, “Why aren’t you wearing a dress?” I think I could have answered “I’m a boy” to these kids, and they would have totally gotten it. Well, not totally, but they wouldn’t have asked about my body parts, and they didn’t even care if I had a girl-name. Their attitude was nice and simple: they didn’t know my gender, so they asked. They didn’t get offended, and they didn’t offend me. Another issue that interests me is how parents deal with gendering their kids, especially when the parents are cool and totally gender-savvy. The problem is, how is the rest of the world going to treat non-stereotypically-gendered children? I don’t know too much about kids, but several writers have tackled this issue:  Blue milk (a mother) has recent posts about three-year-olds discussing queer politics and pink for boys. There’s this post about letting a son wear pink. Theorist Judith “Jack” Halberstam –heart!– talks about the problem of gendering kids. For a feminist twist: I Sing Like A Girl. My Life as a Drag King’s take (and here, too). And last but never least, Lesbian Dad with Terms of engenderment, or The “buddy” question. —————————————————– PS: a couple of scientific studies on kids and gender: Difference Blog on how children associate gender with height. An extensive review of children’s beliefs on gender. Childhood Links Theorizing children FTM gender gender beliefs Genderqueer kids trans transboy transgender Kids and gender Today, I spoke very briefly on the radio about “urban tribes” linked to sexual orientation.  I had planned to elaborate on teenage sexuality, gender identity and the such; time didn’t allow for it, especially considering it was one of the country’s most important radio stations, but it was a nice experience. Plus, during a commercial, I discussed with one of the reporters about sexuality and gender. She had said, on the show, that sexual orientation was a “choice”, and then she talked about sexual orientation when speaking about a trans person. I told her I disagreed, and later she clarified the “choice” misunderstanding on the show. And, she approached me later about doing a piece on gay youth! Ok, I’m not lesbian like she thinks, but she’s probably interested in trans teens too. I’m not sure I want that kind of exposure, but visibility and dialogue are important; I guess we can arrange for privacy. So, I’ve been very LGBT-active these days! I hope these small thing I’m doing will help, somehow. Extra There were some U.S. citizens at the Pride March, and look what they brought. In the background, you can see the huge Comunidad Homosexual Argentina balloon and a rainbow flag hanging over the street. Activism, Politics and Mass Media gay pride lgbt obama pride march trangender Talking on the radio (plus: look who was at Pride!) Yesterday was LGBT-etcetera PRIDE! Pride March (image by Thomas Hobbes)  I met another transboy, in person, for the first time. I helped hand out pink balloons. I talked to several queer groups about joining forces to promote LGBT visibility in my school. I recieved 13 condoms and 20 lubricants from several different volunteers, including retired people! I fled from dozens of cameras at first, but then I realized that if my family saw me being so happy, they couldn’t be mad. Tango! (image by Thomas Hobbes) I’m swamped in schoolwork right now, but I have lots to write about later. Hope you’re all well! Celebration buenos aires FTM gay pride lgbt pride march queer pride transboy transgender Queer Pride! A couple of guys have been writing about public restrooms. I wonder why I’ve never talked about this yet, considering the huge amounts of time I’ve spent pondering just what the signs mean by “men” and “women”. Do they mean my body? my desired body? my gender? They should set up a restroom for “queers” *. But seriously: I hate having to decide whether or not I’m a “man” every time I need a bathroom. I’ve been avoiding public restrooms for several months. I started getting stared at in the ladies’ last year, even though I didn’t identify as trans yet. I found it funny at first, then annoying, but I felt I had a “right” to be in there; if anyone asked, I just said “I’m a girl” and stuck my chest out to prove it. Now, I feel personally uncomfortable in the women’s: I really don’t want to say “I’m a girl” (I’m a boy!), plus I feel I’m invading women’s space. But I still go there: –if I’m not “passing” well as a dude –if I might run into someone I know (like at school, where people think I’m a girl) –if I’m with my friends-who-are-girls. Actually, I’ve only gone to the men’s room twice, both times at fast-food restaurants. The first time, it was empty, so I got to look around; the walls looked dirtier, but the rest was pretty much the same as the ladies’ — oh yeah, except for the urinal.  The second time was kinda funny. I went in and nearly bumped into the guys, it was so full. I was completely disoriented — there were lavatories, and there was a wall, so where was the rest? I peeked around the wall and, oops, I was looking at the backs of peeing dudes, therefore breaking Rule #1 of male-bathroomhood. I also found the stalls behind that wall, but they seemed to be occupied. Since it was my lucky day, a restaurant employee happened to be in the room, and he asked me if I was waiting for a urinal. Uh-oh! My voice is too high to pass! I think I grunted and pointed at the stalls, and he showed me an empty one. Luckily, my feet weren’t visible from outside the stall, so I didn’t have to worry about my feet pointing the wrong way. I’ve changed so much –physically– in the past week: I cut my hair (yay!) and I started binding (yay!). I don’t think I’ll be allowed in the women’s room anymore. But the men’s room is fine for me. ————————————————————- PS: I love the short documentary Wrong Bathroom about this exact issue. * I know, lots of queers do consider themselves men or women (although even these people may get harassed in men’s/women’s rooms). Genders in everyday life Humor Personal progress FTM public restrooms tboy teen trans transboy transgender transition transman wrong bathroom Forays into the men’s room I think I attach too much importance to certain categories or communities; specifically, “woman” and “lesbian”. By this, I don’t mean that I’m against labels. Excessive and compulsive labeling is dangerous of course, but categories help bring people together, and they can even make identities visible and legitimate. What I mean is that all categories –queer, straight, butch, trans, man, woman– include both cool and not-nice people; so I shouldn’t attach too much emotional value to any of them. For instance, I’m reluctant to leave the “woman” and “lesbian” labels –even though I don’t feel too much like either– because of feminism and sisterhood and power to women. There are so many kickass people who are women and/or lesbians: Rosa Parks standing up (or sitting down) for her rights; Ani Difranco with her powerful, brave songwriting; Ellen Degeneres with her courage and wit. I’m trying to convince myself that I can be funny, brave, and strong, too, without necessarily being a woman or a lesbian. Actually, just being myself –regardless of how I present my gender– is the strongest, bravest, smartest thing I can dream of doing. I wanted to grow up to be a role model for girls, but I can be a good example for kids of all genders. I loved being gay because I thought it made for closer, more equal relationships; but I can be a loving, understanding boyfriend, too. Gender and sexual orientation are just the paint with which I’ll color my world. So let’s color outside of the lines. Celebration Genderqueer Theorizing FTM identity labels role models teen trans transgender transman Coloring outside of the lines I recently caught myself singing “Yellow Submarine” under my breath — accidentally saying “gender” instead of “yellow”. I need to take a breather from gender-theorizing and identity-seeking (as if that were possible). But, yeah, transgender and genderqueer are still pretty much invisible to the larger world; we do live in a submarine of sorts. So we sailed up to the sun Till we found a sea of green And we lived beneath the waves in our gender submarine ———————————————- Gender is yellow The “yellow” reminds me of my header image (made from an image by rick). I like the way the “man” and “woman” aren’t straight, but they aren’t crooked or twisted either: they’re wavy. Maybe, just maybe, they’re bending gender. Humor gender bending Theorizing yellow submarine We all live in a gender submarine I use two antiperspirants: a “female” one (because of its effectiveness) and a “male” one which just makes me smell nice. I noticed the “male” deodorant has sperm on the label. I mean, a drawing of three spermatozoids, one of which uses Axe (presumably) and therefore is ahead of the rest. That, combined with the name of the scent (Conviction), sends a really strong message about masculinity. The way I read it, it says “real men are stronger and better than the rest. they make sure their sperm reaches its target:conviction is all they need, not consent. oh, and they use Axe.” The middle part -about not waiting for consent- is sort of a free interpretation: that day I was angry about the way masculinity is constructed. But the marketing idea is clearly sexual. My “lady’s” deodorant, on the other hand, is shaped like a female -it has a waist- and it shows a dove, which stands for peace (passivity? peace isn’t always passive, but that’s the way it’s shown). It also advertises the fact that it contains cream, which protects the skin – women are supposed to be more worried about skincare. The hugest difference is that my “male” antiperspirant is really explicitly sexual, and everyone’s okay with that, even if they’re shocked by a short-ish skirt. That shocks me. Genders in everyday life Theorizing construction of gender construction of masculinity deodorant femininity masculinity Deodorant: gender in a bottle My brain has been working overtime, these past weeks, thinking about what I am and what I’d like to be. I intended to use this blog to mull over my gender thoughts, but in any given day I’ve gone through identifying as genderqueer to ftm to butch dyke. Whenever I tried to write something down -here or in a gender notebook I keep- I ended up identifying as something else entirely! Anyway, I’ve been feeling more male every day. I’ve always avoided looking at myself -in mirrors, for instance- but I’ve been checking out my own body, inspired by an essay by an FTM person. I don’t hate my physique, but I’d love to stand up straight without worrying about my chest, I’d like to have biceps, I’d like to have less of a waist. I’m starting to think that I’m much more trans than I believed I was. It’s scary, but it’s exciting too. Links Personal progress Theorizing beyond masculinity changes FTM identity teen trans transgender transman Further down FTM lane Image source: Télam Have you heard about the new Gender Identity Law in Argentina?  It passed over a week ago, but I can still hardly believe it. Here’s why it’s so amazing: –Anybody will be able to change the name and gender marker on their ID through a simple administrative procedure. That’s it. No need for a judge’s permission, no need for psychiatric approval, no need for any body modifications. –People who do want to modify their body will have the right to have hormones and surgery covered by their health insurance (or by the public health system, if they’re uninsured). –There’s a special clause to protect the rights of trans youths: if a kid’s parents were unsupportive, a judge would intervene in the best interest of the child. This law was passed almost unanimously in the Senate last Wednesday (May 9th). Nobody voted against it, though one senator abstained from voting and several senators were absent, probably because they would’ve looked bad if they voted against (now, that’s cultural change — it’s finally frowned upon to be against trans rights!) Every account of this law mentions that it’s the most progressive piece of trans-related legislation in the world because, among other things, it avoids pathologization completely (trans identities are not described as an illness). I’m really happy, not only for Argentina, but because it raises the bar for trans rights everywhere. Also, I think it’s a source of hope — after all, Argentina doesn’t have a great history with trans issues. Just a few years ago, when I started transitioning, it was impossible to change your ID without genital surgery. During the 90’s, many trans women and travestis suffered and died due to police persecution. The statistics for trans people –unemployment, school drop-out rate, life expectancy– are still dismal. It goes to show that countries can change, though legal rights are just the beginning. Things can get better when there’s a large movement willing to take on the fight. That’s another thing I love about this law. It doesn’t put trans people in a passive place of suffering, illness or victimization. It wasn’t written by doctors, psychiatrists or condescending allies. The text of the law was written largely by the trans movement. The very process of passing this bill acknowledged the trans community as a force to be reckoned with. All the large LGB organizations backed the law, but trans leaders and organizations were at the heart of the process. I find that very empowering. It’s a shift from a place of despair to a place of anger. Beware, enemies of “the trans”, lest you unleash la furia travesti! Activism, Politics and Mass Media Celebration Legal gender gender identity law Argentina’s Gender Identity Law My mom’s been hanging up my childhood portraits. All I have to do is walk down the hallway and I can see my little-girl-self staring back at me. Eerie. I think I was a girl back then; at least, I didn’t feel uncomfortable being one. I was intrigued by how it would feel to be a boy, but I never wished I had been born in a different body (I still don’t, even though sometimes I want my body to look different in some senses). Mostly I lived in a world that looked genderless to me, where I could love dinosaurs and stuffed animals at the same time. No one could get into my make-believe games and tell me they were unfeminine. My mom dressed me up in skirts and blouses from time to time, but I didn’t care about clothes anyway (I avoided  mirrors until I started dressing masculinely). So I feel ambiguous about those old pictures. Childhood was nice, but it’s time to move on. I hope my mom doesn’t resent me for growing up to be her son. Childhood FTM Genderqueer moving on trans transgender transition Old pictures. …and one of them says “Isn’t that a naked woman?” The other two shout “WHERE??!!” and look around frantically. (There wasn’t any live nudity after all, just a statue; which made our horniness all the more obvious.) I don’t really identify as lesbian anymore; as theorist Judith Jack Halberstam said, it’s more a term for woman-identified women. Dyke, on the other hand, implies masculinity on a female body (bio-female or post-transition), kind of like butch with the addition of queerness. There’s a lot of variety among dykes: butches, femmes, people who go by “she” or by “he”, gay women who hate the word lesbian but love the sonority of “dyke”… Everyone feels welcome. And so do I. Humor Words and terms Dyke Lesbian Queer So, three dykes are walking down the street… I don’t hate my given name. I’ve had it for almost 17 years, which is enough time to get used to anything. Okay, it might feel a little awkward to hear it pronounced, or to say it myself. And it’s certainly weird to see feminine women called that same name. But most of my friends call me by my androgynous nickname, which they made up unawares of my gender explorations. Even so, I’ve daydreamed about having a more neutral name. The thing is, most Hispanic names come from saints, who are very gendered persons indeed; so I’d have to go for a foreign name. There are many that I love –such as Dhani, like George Harrison’s son–, but for me, a name has to really fit, like an old t-shirt. Exotic names, even gorgeous ones, feel sort of scratchy. After thinking about all this, and since I can’t legally change my name anyway, I decided to just keep my given name. But as John Lennon said, life is what happens to you when you’re trying to make other plans. I swear I wasn’t looking for a new, male, name for myself. I was actually trying to do some homework when suddenly I remembered certain name. It’s old, it’s religious, it’s just an ordinary name. I don’t even know how a totally male name could fit me. But it fits. Names FTM Genderqueer trans transgender transition Naming yourself My legal name will probably be the same forever. I don’t know how the system works in other countries; but around here, the paperwork would take years. That is, if it’s possible at all. There’s this law that makes parents give their children “properly” gendered names. Technically you could use an androgynous-sounding name, and you could even give a kid a name associated with the opposite sex. But in both cases, that name has to be complemented by another one that defines hir (biological) sex: hence María José for a girl or José María for a boy. (I like the how these really traditional combinations mix up genders, even if they don’t question the binary.) I guess it’s a cultural thing. Naming laws are made to protect kids’ dignity, and maybe gender is so important in my culture that it would be an insult not to know someone’s gender. So, I can’t be legally called an androgynous name in any circumstances. And if I wanted a male name, I’d have to go through sex-reassignment surgery –which I don’t want– and then prove myself man enough to deserve a legal sex change –which I don’t want either, and I don’t think I would be macho enough to pass. Legal gender Names FTM Genderqueer Legal In which the law gets in the way The Olympic authorities are testing female athletes to make sure they’re real women. The interesting thing about all this is that the Olympic committee makes exceptions for women who are transgender. So, openly trans women are allowed to compete unmolested by embarrassing tests as long as they have had full surgeries, two years worth of hormone replacement therapy, etc. That means that the women most negatively affected by this testing are women who are still transitioning, or women who may have lived their whole lives as women, but who test male when their chromosomes are analyzed (they might be XXY). Feminocracy What is a real woman, then? I’ve been trying to answer this question for a long time. Does feeling like a woman make you a woman? I’d say yes. But what if you say you feel like a woman, but your gender presentation is totally male? Butch women come to mind, and they’re definitely women; but what about those guys who say they’re lesbians trapped in men’s bodies? I mean the jerks, not the transwomen who really are lesbians trapped in male bodies. I guess it’s jerks like these that the Olympians are trying to stop. But what cisgendered guy would seriously pretend to be a transwoman, for the whole world to see? It’s hard enough for real transpeople; I don’t think a cisperson could take it. So maybe they should just trust people’s gender statement. Genitals, hormones and chromosomes don’t even matter: not all transpeople go through sex reassignment surgery, and many skip hormones altogether. And what about genderqueer people? Should they be able to choose what category to participate in? I can’t even pick what bathroom to go to, for heck’s sake! Although it’s probably your legal sex that matters. Legal gender Theorizing "Real" gender FTM Genderqueer Legal MTF Olympics What is a real woman? I feel I should introduce myself, to provide some context around upcoming posts. First of all, I’m a Latin American living in Latin America. The beauty of the blogosphere is that I can live over here, and you can live way over there, but we can still connect through our words. I’m still in high school and living with my parents. So, I have no idea whether my gender doubts are about identity or about raging hormones (or maybe hormones are a part of identity? Tough question). I’ve been questioning my gender, on and off, for two years; I just didn’t think too much about the matter because I was discovering my queer sexuality at the same time. Plus, it was plain scary. But I can’t ignore my gender identity anymore. For months I’ve been combing the internet for news articles, academic papers, websites, movies, whatever, on the subject. Then I found a blog on gender by a genderqueer person. And you know how it is: from the blogroll you find a related blog, and the people who comments also have interesting blogs, and soon there’s no going back. It makes you want your own blog to participate in the debate. So voilà. Personal progress Genderqueer Introduction Me Theorizing ‘Lo there I’m about to undertake a journey that involves many “firsts” — it’ll be my first time traveling alone, my first time hosteling, my first time in places where I don’t speak the language… I’ve never been on such a long trip, nor have I ever strayed this far from home. I never thought I’d dare to do something like this — that is, until I transitioned. I’ve had the opportunity to wander around the country in the past few years, both with family and with friends & classmates, so I’ve been able to see how my attitude towards travel has shifted throughout my transition. I loved vacationing as a kid, but it started to be awkward when my appearance became ambiguous in my mid-teens (partly because of the public restroom dilemma, partly because my parents were embarrassed when people read me as male). Then there was a long period when travel was utterly terrifying for me, first because I was obviously queer, then because I was passing as male full-time but I knew I could be “discovered” at any time due to my voice and chest. Heck, my own city became scary for a while (though that’s another story), so why would I want to go to places that were unfamiliar and full of people? But as I’ve mentioned before, transitioning has opened a lot of doors for me. So, when I had the chance to travel to a student conference a few months ago, I allowed myself to be talked into going. I had good reasons for not going: we’d all be sleeping together on a gym floor, I didn’t know what the shower setup would be in the locker rooms, and none of my classmates knew about my past. But deep down I knew that I’d be fine and that I was just making excuses for not stepping out of my comfort zone, so I let myself be dragged along with my friends. (Important note: I was with people I trusted and who would’ve been OK with my trans status if I’d had to disclose for whatever reason. I didn’t put myself in risk at any time.) And you know what? I had a great time. With my newfound confidence, meeting new people from around the country was less daunting than it would have been an year earlier. And the thing I’d been most anxious about –my trans body and how I’d maneuver it through certain situations– wasn’t such a big deal after all. In fact, my worst fear about the showers did come true –there were no partitions whatsoever– but I simply bathed in swimming trunks and wrapped a towel around my waist when changing.  And when it was time get un/dressed in the evenings and mornings, I felt comfortable enough to take my shirt and pants off in front of hundreds of people –modestly facing the wall– even though someone could’ve noticed my chest scars or the lack of bulge in my underpants (which aren’t obvious signals of transness, anyway). All in all, being trans was a non-issue in that trip. So I pretty much jumped off the deep end when it comes to traveling stealth –it might have been less intimidating if I’d been with a smaller group and staying in a hotel– but I managed to get through it with ease. Knowing that I’m capable of confronting this kind of situation has given me a huge confidence boost: I feel that my horizons have expanded significantly, in quite a literal sense. I can’t even imagine the freedom I’ll feel when I can get my ID in order. Personal progress travel Traveling while trans I recently turned 500 days on T, which is a nice number to celebrate. Also, it coincided with my last day of school (hooray for summer!), so it’s a good chance to look back on the past year or so. In retrospect, it’s amazing how much I’ve socially blossomed this year. I knew my body was holding me back, but I didn’t realize how much until I managed to align my body with my mental “body map”. Perhaps it’s like getting glasses when you’ve had slightly fuzzy vision your whole life: you suddenly realize how clear the world can look and you don’t understand how you managed to get by beforehand. Although I didn’t think that changing my body would change my life so drastically, I did want to physically transition before university so I could feel confident when meeting new people. I didn’t believe I could keep my past private for long –though, as it turned out, I could and did– but I did want to feel comfortable with myself. People already saw me as male before T, but they often stared at me, wondering why a little kid was in their class. And my chest was manageable before surgery, but I couldn’t deal with binding anymore, and it was really awkward whenever someone patted my back or chest. I know I was privileged to “pass” as my gender, but physical transition was something I needed for these reasons and many others. Luckily, I was able to start testosterone seven or eight months before starting university, so no one questioned me about my age. And I had top surgery a week before the first day of school; though I wish I’d had more time to recover, getting that done before classes started was one of the best things that has ever happened to me. Suddenly, interacting with people was easy. Sure, I was still slightly socially awkward, but I didn’t have to worry about my body anymore. I actually made friends, and even some close friends! It was as if I’d been walking against a wall, and the wall had suddenly been lifted: I glided smoothly into a new role as a friendly person, astonishing my old friends and even myself. (My personality and tastes weren’t radically altered; for instance, I’m still introverted and avoid parties. What shifted is how I interact with other people.) Before each of my transitional-related decisions I reminded myself that transitioning isn’t a magic solution to everything: after all, cis people can also be shy, socially awkward, anxious, etc. But for me, transitioning was kind of magic. I’m still amazed at how quickly my life changed for the better after changing my body. I’m so glad that I made the decision to do it, and that I had the resources and support to make it possible. It’s like a second chance at life. I am so grateful. Body Celebration Personal progress 500 days on T A few hours ago, the lower house of Argentina’s Congress voted to pass a “gender identity law”. It still has to go through the Senate, but this is great news — especially because it passed with a whopping 167 ayes, only 17 nays and 7 abstentions. I watched the debate online and I could hardly believe my eyes when some of the most right-wing politicians spoke for the bill. The proposed law is truly groundbreaking — it would allow us trans people to correct the name & gender marker on all our personal documentation without needing any medical/psychological approval or body modifications (so it wouldn’t pathologize trans identities). On top of that, health insurance and the public health system would have to cover hormones and surgery for those of us who do want them. I was confident that the bill would pass, but I never imagined it would be so unanimous. In particular, I thought there would be more hesitance about putting money towards trans-specific health care, but that issue only came up once or twice in the debate (and someone quickly pointed out that it wouldn’t make a huge impact, financially). The only really controversial topic, as it turned out, was the inclusion of underage people in the bill. This law won’t change everything for trans people –in several countries where ID changes are allowed, trans folks still struggle– but it is a huge step, especially if medical expenses are covered. And the trans community in Argentina has been undertaking beautiful, ambitious projects lately, which deserve an entire post and which give me much hope. As a group of activists chanted in Congress today, “¡Alerta, alerta, alerta que caminan / travestis feministas por América Latina!” (“Watch out, feminist travestis are walking through Latin America!”) For more details in English about the proposed law, here’s the Buenos Aires Herald article for today and here‘s a month-old article that nonetheless explains the bill in depth. Activism, Politics and Mass Media Legal gender gender identity law news Towards a gender identity law I was recently asked this by a person who is considering transition, but is concerned with the struggle it might entail. I thought my answers might help someone else, so here they are: What was transitioning like for you? How long did it take before you could stand in front of a mirror and actually see yourself standing there? What does your family make of it all? What do strangers make of it? Was it worth it? So many questions, but they’re all very personal and everyone’s different! What was transitioning like for you? The hardest part, in my case, was figuring out that my discomfort was about gender issues, and then finding out how I wanted to live my life gender-wise. There were difficult moments later, of course, such as coming out in all the different spheres of my life, but they were limited to a relatively short time periods. Even the aftermath of each coming out never extended further than a couple of months; whereas it took years to finally feel comfortable within myself, and know what I needed to do in order to be happy. Once I figured that out, the rough spots of transition were tolerable because I knew they were taking me closer to my goal. Like Lucille Ball said, “It’s a helluva start, being able to recognize what makes you happy.” How long did it take before you could stand in front of a mirror and actually see yourself standing there? My own reflection made me uncomfortable for years before questioning my gender, though I had no idea why. But when I first tried thinking of myself as a boy, even before cutting my hair, I spent hours staring at my face close to the mirror, wondering “can I see a boy there?”  – and I could (at least from certain angles, some of the time). After cutting my hair short, it got better; I could recognize my whole head as mine. Binding helped even further. The only thing I really struggled with about my reflection was my hips – they threw me completely, so I avoided full-body mirrors. A few months on testosterone helped immensely, but I think it was psychological because my body fat didn’t shift that quickly – I think I finally felt comfortable enough in my body to accept it as a whole. What does your family make of it all? My family had a really hard time accepting the changes in my appearance: ever-shorter hair, clothes from the men’s section… Living with my parents, it was a constant fight. But they finally worked through their issues (they did attend therapy for a few months) and, when I came out as trans, they had already done a lot of processing and were ready to take it on. That doesn’t mean they accepted it instantly; but within a few months they were using the correct name and acknowledging my decisions. What do strangers make of it? I don’t know; most strangers are in your life for a short period of time, so they don’t really see how you’re changing (though my neighbors think that I’m two different people). The hardest group of people, for me, were the people I knew by name but who weren’t my friends (most of my schoolmates), because I had to interact with them but didn’t feel close enough to tell them about my transition; so they kept misgendering me. It was awkward. No one ever commented about my appearance, though, and trust me, my classmates saw me change radically. Was it worth it? This is the most loaded question, but also the very easiest to answer. Yes. I never dreamed transition could make such a difference in my quality of life; though I must’ve known –or hoped– it deep inside, or I wouldn’t have done it. I’m glad you didn’t ask “was it hard?” because I would’ve had to tell you “yes, it is hard”, and I wouldn’t be showing you the whole picture. Yes, it might’ve be hard, but living is so much easier now –seriously, you wouldn’t believe it– that every ounce of struggle I’ve gone through is worth it. Most of the time, now, I don’t even remember the tough moments I’ve gone through, and when I do, I’d readily go back and endure ten times the strain, knowing what life is like now. I can’t tell anyone what their (possible) transition might be like –everyone’s goals and contexts are different– but in most cases it is not impossible to change at least some parts of your life in order to feel more comfortable. Maybe it was just me, but when I first thought about transitioning, it seemed laughably infeasible. It took me several months to realize that the world wouldn’t end if I started living in a different gender. Quite the opposite. Personal progress my experience my story transition What was transitioning like for me? I just finished my first university semester and, as of yet, I haven’t told any of my classmates that I’m trans. Though my name hasn’t been changed in the school’s system (and I haven’t changed it legally, either), I talked to all my teachers at the beginning of the year and managed to maneuver through tight situations without having to disclose my past. This is the first time that I’ve been “stealth” –not openly trans– in my everyday life (though I have been stealth in one class or another for 2.5 years). It made me realize that, like teenage boys, I hadn’t yet formed an identity to go with the young (cis) man people were starting to see me as. In fact, I think I went through all the steps of teen male socialization in fast forward: I tried to be masculine at first and avoided physical contact with guys, fearing rejection; then I tested the waters to see if my new friends were ok with breaking gender rules; and finally I felt comfortable enough to let my guard down. It’s been curious, seeing how the same parts of myself have different implications depending on whether I’m seen as trans or cis. If I talk about knitting or baking with my old friends, they know I learned these things because I was raised as a girl; if I talk about the same things with new buddies, they become markers of queerness or femme-ness. And, as I’ve discovered, I feel comfortable with being seen as a queer cis male. I thought that passing as cis might be sad because I’d have to hide cherished parts of my past, but I’m realizing that I don’t have to hide them; they just take on new meanings which are also acceptable to me. I would like to disclose my past to some of my new friends, but the field in which I’m studying is really small (so my present classmates will be my future colleagues) and information like this gets around very fast. I never thought I’d be able to stay stealth for so long –I figured someone would see my student ID or find out through mutual acquaintances– so I didn’t think I’d even have this choice. I’m taking my time with this decision because it will have long-lasting consequences; though being open about my past would be rewarding for many reasons, disclosures can’t be undone. Edited to add: a few months after writing this (11/11/11) I disclosed to one classmate whom I’d become very close with and who I trust completely. I’m glad I did it. We ended up becoming even closer friends — in fact, he came out to me as queer right after my disclosure! Genders in everyday life Personal progress School coming out disclosure stealth Living as a cis man When I started transitioning socially, I felt hesitant because I didn’t fully identify as a male/man. So I went slowly, only taking steps when absolutely necessary: first I chose a neutral name, then a male one, then I switched pronouns with different groups of people… By two years ago, I was living as male in small parts of my life (extracurricular classes where I was perceived as a cis boy, interactions with strangers). Fast forward to the present: I still don’t identify as male1 , but I’m perceived as one in all areas of my life. It can be odd to be read as cis and straight, and I do occasionally feel like parts of my identity are being erased; but it feels comfortable enough, and it’s much more fitting than passing as female. I’m coming to accept that presenting as a binary gender doesn’t mean that I have to identify as one; likewise, my identity –or lack thereof– doesn’t force me to constantly live outside the binary (close friends do know that I’m neither here nor there). They’re two different parts of my gender that don’t have to “align” one way or the other, just like gender expression and gender identity and the body can combine in a myriad of ways. For me, it helps to remember that many people –for many reasons– choose to present differently from how they identify:  trans people who don’t want to transition, or transition in parts of their lives genderqueer people who live within the binary in history, “passing women”2  —FAAB people who lived publicly as men– some of which lived/identified as women in their private circles.  I think it’s important, though, to acknowledge that how I identify –though important– is a rather abstract notion. I am being perceived as male, with all the privileges that it entails, and rejecting maleness is no excuse to deny it. Since starting university two months ago, I’ve been living as male in my daily life to a further extent than ever before (and as a cis male to boot — I’m not disclosing my trans status for now). I’m curious to see how it feels in the long run, and whether I find a malehood that’s a closer fit for me. I’m pleased to announce, though, that I feel more at home with myself than ever before, socially and physically, so these gender explorations aren’t so urgent; they’re less about discomfort than about learning who I am as a person. Which, at 19, isn’t such an odd thing to do. ——————————————————————————————  1 Actually, I suspect that I don’t have a deep-seated gender identity at all. I do feel strongly about certain gendered aspects like pronouns, names, and –in Spanish– word endings, but I don’t feel like those things coalesce into one steady identity. I’m still exploring this, though. 2 “passing woman – chiefly used in the historical sense to refer to a non-transgendered woman living as a man in order to have access to careers and lifestyles only available to men at that time. Some historical figures who would today be more accurately called FTM transsexuals or transsexual men are sometimes referred to as passing women. “ — definition from the Ontario Human Rights Commission. Of course, it’s hard to know how they identified and why they lived that way; the term probably lumps together wildly differently life-stories. Also, we shouldn’t force today’s categories onto the past. Genderqueer Genders in everyday life Theorizing Presenting -but not identifying- as male I’m nearing my third year on testosterone, and although I could say “three years have gone by so fast!”, it wouldn’t be true. I feel like I’ve lived a whole lifetime since starting T — not necessarily because of transition-related reasons, but because I’m 21 years old and still growing at a really intense pace. But I’d like to summarize –real quick– what’s been going on with my body. My first year on T was the Year of Most Changes: my voice dropped, most of my body fat redistributed, my face got more angular, and so on. The second year was the Year of the Beard; at that point I had stopped paying attention to physical changes until I suddenly realized that I could grow a decent beard (and I never shaved again). And this third year, apparently, is the Year of MOAR HAIR. I already had hair everywhere –even pre-T– but now it seems to be thickening in odd places (like my wrists) and spreading even further across my stomach. And, to my great joy, my beard seems to continue to fill in, although I did accept it in its previous sparse, patchy glory. All of this is actually too slow to observe; I only noticed because I gradually had to increase the frequency of my beard-trimming to once a week instead of once a month. It’s true what they say, then — testosterone continues to change your body even a few years after starting. I’m not sure, though, if my changes are still specifically transition-related or if it’s all part of growing older in a testosterone-fueled body (cisgender men continue to get hairier way beyond puberty). Whichever it is, I’m really enjoying growing into my body and love it more every day =) Body Personal progress changes hormones HRT testosterone trans man transition Three years on testosterone Surgery went well! I wasn’t so nervous going in as I had expected, there were no complications, and –although the first days were rougher than I’d anticipated– I’m now feeling almost back to normal. There’s a lot of text (and video) online about recovering from top surgery, so I won’t delay you with the whole story here, although I’m open to any questions you may have. I do want to mention a few things that my surgeon did differently from doctors in other countries, or even other surgeons I met here, besides the unusual technique:  He didn’t leave any drains in my chest, which was great for my comfort and squeamishness (I hadn’t heard about top surgery without them, so I was wary at first, but ultimately I trusted his judgment). On the third day he covered my wounds with tegaderm, which is a waterproof dressing, so I could take showers (but the idea of water hitting my chest still terrifies me, so I’ve been taking tub/washcloth baths). He does all his wound care himself, twice a week, which is great because (1) I’m squeamish, (2) I’m sure that it’s done properly, and (3) he can control the wounds’ progress often.  I’m very happy with my chest, even though I haven’t seen it completely: my nipples/incisions are covered with gauze and I’ve decided not to look until the stitches come out. I still have a lot of swelling, but the relative flatness is nice. I thought that, at first, I’d miss the volume that I lost from my chest, seeing as I’d lived with it for so long (I’m prone to nostalgia, even for the bad things in my life). I thought that I’d have to get used to the flatness, despite having wanted it for so long; but when I looked down at my  chest after surgery, it just made sense. I think it’ll be harder to grow accustomed to my scars and the new placement of my nipples. I’d always seen myself, in my mind, as having a flat chest; and I’d even seen it in real life, thanks to binding. But it was harder to picture exactly where my nipples would be, their size, or what my scars would look like, so I expect all of that to look foreign to me at first. That’s another reason why I haven’t looked under the gauze yet: so I can get to know my chest slowly. I feel very grateful towards my parents, who have been taking care of me during my recovery. They don’t know about this blog, but still: ¡gracias, mami y papi! Uncategorized postaweek2011 recovery top surgery Ten days post-op Several weeks ago, I decided on a top surgeon: the one who performs the extended periareolar method. I asked his secretary to book a date, but she forgot to call us back; so I didn’t have any updates until last week, when I had another appointment with him. As it turns out, I was booked for this week — more precisely, tomorrow! The surgeon gave us a few days to think about it, given that we’d just found out (“us” is my parents and I — they’re amazingly involved). The timing is almost perfect as I haven’t started school yet, so we’ve decided to go for it. I couldn’t believe it was really happening until yesterday, when I showed the doctor my last lab results, and I had a million pre-op tasks to do that kept me from posting here. I always thought that I’d burst of nervousness the days before surgery, but I’ve felt oddly calm since setting the date a week ago. I’m not overly worried about the surgery itself: there are risks, but I’m in great health; and I’ve decided it’s worth it. I’m not too concerned about the aesthetic results, either: I’ve thought about that thoroughly before choosing a surgeon, so I have the peace of mind of knowing I made the right choice. Actually, my main concerns right now are (1) how my parents will feel during surgery — the waiting time must be awful; (2) how I’ll feel in the clinic before surgery — the preparations are probably unnerving; and (3) being weak for several weeks post-op, since my commute to school will be physically demanding. Mostly, I’m just glad I’m getting this done. I should go now, to eat & drink for the last time before surgery, and to say goodbye to my breasts. Readers and future chest: I’ll see you all tomorrow! PS: Here’s a relevant quote by Jamison Green that I found: Understanding the surgery one is seeking requires  accepting the fact that one is altering his body and that he will never  have the body with which he should have been born. This means accepting  the limitations that his body has before he gets on the operating table,  and accepting that he will not come out of this scarless, without  wounds, or without compromises. That is not to say that transmen can’t  keep working and hoping for improvements – we can and we do. But we have  to live in our bodies one way or another. We need to know how much  imperfection we can handle. Identifying as a transsexual means we have  signed up to consider these questions. not to do so is to invite  disaster. Testosterone & Surgery postaweek2011 top surgery Surprise surgery date! Anyone who knows the basics of gender is aware of the difference between gender and sex. I know it, too, to the point that I get annoyed when trans is defined as “someone whose gender differs from their sex” (as if only two sex/gender combinations were valid and the rest were incongruent!) But in this post I want to explore the places where gender and body do overlap in ways that don’t fit neatly into the binary of sex vs gender. My personal experience of dysphoria, for the most part, hasn’t been gendered (other people’s experience differs). My hips and breasts bother me, not because I see a woman when I look at them, but because they don’t feel right on my body. The only feature which felt wrong in a gendered way, pre-testosterone, was my face: from certain angles, I could see myself as a girl, even though I could look at my entire naked body and see a boy. My goal in physically transitioning wasn’t to align my sex and gender, but rather to allow my body to reflect how I see myself in my mind. Before that, I transitioned socially to align my self-perception with the way people referred to me. I saw them as separate –though interacting– processes. Certainly, gender –as in identity– is independent from the body: no one can tell you how to identify based on your sex (or based on anything else, for that matter), although your identity can affect how you relate to your body. But masculinity and femininity often are expressed through the body, e.g. in the form of muscles and body hair: whether or not they’re developed, whether or not it’s removed. I know that muscles don’t make the man (or the butch); the point is that people do use their bodies to signal parts of their identity, including aspects of their gender.* I’m thinking about all this because I’ve long passed the point where I went from looking like a pre-pubescent boy  to looking like an adolescent boy, and now I’m hovering on the edge of being  perceived as a Man. And, given the shape of my jaw and my  soon-to-be-copious facial hair, I won’t look like a delicate man,  either, but a Manly Man. And that intrigues me and worries me at the same time, since I don’t feel masculine. I am comfortable presenting as male, and being read as one, even though I don’t identify as a man/male; will I be ok with being seen as manly? (Granted, the rest of my body –thin and un-muscular– does offset the effect.) And will I still recognize myself if my face expresses a gender which is slightly off, or will I flinch like I did when I could see a girl in my face? It might not be a trans thing, though. I love this post by femme guy (who is cis) about feeling that his body isn’t acceptable as femme: I spent a lot of time feeling that the way I look was out of step with my gender identity… I felt like the canonical femme man is a tiny slip of a boy, and trying  to be a gentle, faggy, flamey boy at my size was just ludicrous and  there was no way I could fully live my gender presentation in the size  and shape I’m in. If my wariness about having a “manly” body is similar to his, then I’ll have to work through my own prejudice about masculinity, femininity and how it’s displayed on bodies (heck, anyone would do well to rethink these things). But I’ll pay attention to how I feel about my facial changes in case it is a trans thing, and I stop recognizing myself (dysphoria is not about living up to stereotypes, and it can’t be dispelled by thought or analysis). If that happens, I’ll consider stopping T. But I’m ok for now. *Wheelchair Dancer points out how disability theory deepens our understanding of gender/sexuality identities as related to the body. Body Testosterone & Surgery Theorizing dysphoria masculinity postaweek2011 transition Physical manliness? As new bills for trans rights are being presented in Congress nationally and provincially in Argentina, my mind goes back to July 14, 2010. A law for full marriage equality had already been approved by one House/Chamber, and that day it was to be discussed in the Senate. A friend and I joined the crowd in front of the Legislative Palace, showing support and listening with bated breath to the discussion, which was being broadcast onto a screen. Everyone seemed to be there: all the LGBT organizations, of course, but also worker’s unions, social justice/human rights organizations, banners of support from political parties… Yes, I was annoyed that they hadn’t stood for LGB rights before it was a popular issue, but mostly I felt joy to see so many people there. Especially because –ever since it had become a visible topic of debate– anti-gay graffitis and stickers had shown up everywhere, even near my home. It was a very cold winter day, but it felt warmer there in the crowd. But, for me, the most stunning thing of the day happened back at school. My friend and I only stayed at the Congress for a little while because my school was also in turmoil: a huge decision had been made, most students and teachers were against it, and debates and demonstrations were being held back-to-back. When we returned from the Senate, a rally was being held around the school door: people were chanting and even dancing in a mosh pit. The main demand was greater in-school democracy. I heard a snatch of a new chant, and though I couldn’t make out the words, I clearly recognized the word “homosexual”. I frowned: were they using “gay” to insult an authority figure?  No, it was something about gay marriage — it was asking for gay marriage! ¡O-lé-lé, o-lá-lá, democratización, matrimonio homosexual! The song demanded both school democratization and gay marriage! And ALL the kids were singing it, and MOSHING to it! I still get goosebumps when I remember that moment. It was so beautiful to see 12-to-18-year-olds dancing for gay rights. I realized that it didn’t matter if the bill didn’t pass this time: it was bound to, soon. The biggest challenge –changing people’s minds– had been overcome, and even if Congress members were unwilling to recognize it, they couldn’t stop the course of history. The law did pass, just before dawn. I woke to an ecstatic text message announcing the news, and when I reached school, half-running in excitement, a straight friend picked me clean off the ground and whirled me around in a circle, both of us shouting with joy. The trans bills I mentioned haven’t been discussed in Congress yet, and I  wonder if –when the date draws near– trans issues will be discussed  to such an extent. It’s urgently needed, because transphobia is even more rampant than homophobia. I hope that, in a few months, I can tell a similar story about the day trans people are granted our rights. Activism, Politics and Mass Media postaweek2011 The day gays could marry I signed up for university this week. I feel so excited!  At the place where I’ll be studying, there’s a new rule that allows trans students and workers to use their chosen names. So after enrolling with my legal name, I headed to the office for Student Well-Being to sort that out. I was unsure about what would happen: I’d heard that the administrative staff blatantly ignored trans people’s appeals. But the staff members that I talked to were wonderful. They didn’t know how to satisfy my request –the information system hasn’t been updated to handle chosen names– but they went out of the way to find out what I should do; and, more importantly, they immediately understood the validity of my claim. I ended up leaving them a letter –formalizing my request– that they’ll send to the office for Legal Issues. I don’t know if my name will be changed before school starts, but I trust that it will happen at some point. Knowing that, I don’t mind if I have to explain things to my professors for this semester. The rule allowing for chosen names is new, after all, and even if the practical aspects haven’t been worked out, at least the staff believe in trans rights.  The future looms bright for me and all the other trans members of my school. If you’ve been reading my blog for a while you might be confused because  last year I also posted about starting university. I did begin last year, sort of: where I  live, there’s often a transition year between secondary school and  higher education, and that’s what I was doing. Now I’ll finally start  studying for my chosen major. Legal gender Names School name change postaweek2011 university Signed up for university Like many people daydream about their future wedding, I’ve been thinking about my name-change ceremony lately. I don’t really think there’s a ceremony, but there is a trial in a courtroom involving three witnesses. In my mind, I’ve been picking my witnesses like others pick their groomsmen or bridesmaids (or bridesmen or groomspersons or…), except with a bit more strategy. I’m 19 and my closest friends are around my same age, and although I know they’re responsible –and they’re the people who know me best– the judge will be more likely to trust older people. So I might choose one friend, one teacher and one family member. I’m very lucky that I can count on several people to stand up for me. I have enough close friends to make it hard to pick just one; a few family members might agree to go; and I can ask my old Art History, Photography, Journalism and Psychology teachers (I don’t know if they’d all be willing go to court, which is scary and serious, but it’s worth a try). I don’t know if I’ll have to go through a trial because I’m not yet ready to change my name legally, and trans rights might be approved in Congress very soon, turning it into a matter of routine paperwork instead of having to sue the state. But if I did go through an ordeal involving witnesses, I think I’d cry uncontrollably from the sheer weight of knowing that people are there for me. The very thought overwhelms me sometimes already, but the formal recognition of that support would push me into tearland. Maybe that’s why people cry at weddings. Note: since writing this, I’ve learned that it’s a really unromantic affair, and witnesses have to testify on their own in an office. Oh well. I can still daydream about the day name-change laws are modified, which will be much more important than any individual triumph. Legal gender Names future name change postaweek2011 Dreaming of my name-change ceremony This afternoon, I had a consultation with a surgeon who recommended the extended peri-areolar –or extended concentric circles– procedure for me. Like in periareolar or keyhole, an incision is made around the areola (all the way around or just half a circle, depending on the case); but in this method, there are two extra scars extending horizontally from the areola which allow extra skin to be taken out. I was super excited to find someone who performs this surgery because I was nervous about having too much extra skin for periareolar. Although I’ve seen excellent results from peri –even on medium-sized breasts– and it’s been recommended for my chest, I only know one person who underwent this surgery in Argentina and he ended up with stretched-out areolas. I was okay with that at the time –and it’s only a possibility, not a certainty– but the extended method would avoid that risk. And you get UFO shaped scars! Fun! There’s very little info online that I could find. I learned about the technique thanks to Travis, who has a very clear explanation video (here’s a slideshow video of his chest healing). He’s the one who calls it the “spaceship” or “London underground” surgery due to the shape of the scars. The article “Mastectomy in Female-to-male Transsexuals” by Namba, Watanabe and Kimata explains the procedure and who it’s recommended for (warning: black-and white images of surgery being performed). Finally, the article “Chest-Wall Contouring Surgery in Female-to-Male Transsexuals: A New Algorithm” compares the outcome of five types of mastectomy –including extended peri– performed on 92 people and concludes which type is best for each case. I love that this article includes before and after pictures (and diagrams) of each procedure, without showing anything graphic. Two fun facts about this technique: it was invented in the 1930s and  it’s called the Moguilevsky method (according to the surgeon, at least; I  couldn’t find any source to point y’all to). The downside to extended peri? The last article I linked found that it had the highest rate of complications and revisions, along with the lowest satisfaction rating. And since there are very few images available, I’m not sure what to expect.  Please let me know if you’ve heard more about this procedure; it still seems like a good option. Edit: I found an assortment of materials from Australia, where this operation is fairly common. Here’s some pictures and a whole bunch of videos showing the results. it had the highest revisional rate (60 percent) and the lowest overall satisfaction rating (3.6 of 5) by both patient and surgeon Testosterone & Surgery postaweek2011 top surgery SPACESHIP top surgery! …isn’t as straightforward –in my case– as it might seem. I did loathe getting breasts and, before that, I felt nauseated from the moment I realized it would happen. They were one of the main reasons –along with my overall curvy shape– I detached myself from my body at puberty. But when I started seeing myself as trans, I became aware of the reasons for my bodily dissociation, and therefore could begin the process of reconciliation. I saw countless images of people with male, boy or genderqueer  identities who not only looked like me, but were comfortable with their embodiment. I realized that my body, in fact, did not negate my identity, and that the right clothes could make me look the way I imagined myself. I found that even though my breasts –according to my mental self-image– weren’t supposed to be there, I could still live with them. At least temporarily. But I know that I don’t want them there. And I think my body deserves to be joyfully embraced instead of merely tolerated. Don’t get me wrong: I truthfully love my breasts, but in the manner of that genderfork quote: “I don’t hate my body, it’s just not my thing.  It’s like that dress you  see in the window that’s gorgeous, but not your color.” I wish they could somehow exist separately from my body, or that I could retain the option to put them back on occasionally (I know I wouldn’t do it often, but having the choice makes all the difference. I’m prone to nostalgia!). There are times when I feel rather affectionate towards my boobs. They’re okay when I’m alone –even if I’m naked– and when I see them in the mirror, I wonder if I’ll miss them. They feel nice to the touch, especially in winter when they’re like warm squeeze-balls. At these moments I wonder if I really need to take them off. But when I get dressed, if I don’t bind, they look so out of place on my body, and make me feel so uncomfortable amongst people (even if no one notices them), that I remember why I’m planning for surgery. Even when binding I feel nervous that someone will try to touch my chest; and binding has gotten so painful for me that I rarely do it anymore, even though I end up much more hostile towards everyone. Would I mind my breasts if I lived on a desert island? No, not really. But I’m human, a social creature (though introverted and not-too-sociable), and my boobs have become an obstacle between myself and others. It’s time to let them go. Body Testosterone & Surgery The decision of top surgery I used to think that “passing” –being perceived as the gender I presented– was about people seeing me as male, a cisgender male. At some point, I realized that I didn’t care if people read me as trans or cis, as long as they respected me as a guy. Admittedly, though, it’s hard to be perceived as a trans man at first glance — people usually see a cis butch woman or a cis man. In any case, one can usually only pass as cis (although some people are perceived as trans women, whether they are or not). Back when I started passing as male some of the time, I saw it as something completely out of my control — if someone perceived me as female, I was stuck with that label unless I wanted to come out. And even if I came out, the other person held the power to respect me or not, and I’d have to justify my own gender in a way rarely demanded of cis people. But there was one time where I reacted differently. I went to a small used clothing store, looking for a jacket, and the owner started pulling out lots of tight-fitting, feminine items to show me. I was confused because I hadn’t even thought about passing for months –I was usually read as male at that point– and blurted out “But… I’m not a girl!” After a stunned second, she apologized and offered an explanation for the misunderstanding (“I know you’re not a girl, but, uh, boys these days wear all sorts of clothes…”). I had asserted myself with such emphasis that, for once, the roles were reversed: someone else had to justify themselves for misgendering me, instead of me acting apologetic for asking for the right pronouns. The passing tip I hear most often is “be confident”, and it kinda annoys me because confidence can’t make people see you as you wish (and that tip almost blames your attitude if you don’t have passing privilege). But sometimes, in safe situations, confidence can help you have your gender respected, even if people haven’t immediately seen you as a cis person of your target gender. Maybe they weren’t even sure what to call you, and made their best guess, and would be happy to correct themselves. In my story, I don’t know if the store owner ended up seeing me as a cis boy or a trans man, but in that situation it didn’t matter. I just wanted to find the right clothes, and she was glad to help me with that. Genders in everyday life confidence passing postaweek2011 Justifying my gender… or not You may have heard that marriage equality was approved in Argentina last July, granting full rights –including adoption– to LGBTQ couples. Well, trans rights might be next in line — they’ll be discussed in Congress in the next few months! The proposed laws would allow us to change our legal gender without surgery, hormones, or a diagnosis of gender identity disorder. Furthermore, they’d legalize genital reassignment surgery, and have it covered by health insurance and the public health system. I don’t know if all of these laws will pass, but I’m really hopeful. To understand how important this is, consider the present legal situation of trans people. In Argentina, your name has to be in accordance to your legal gender, which you can’t change unless your body matches up with a cis person’s. So, to make my male name official, I’d have to change my gender marker, but to do so I’d have to take hormones, get top surgery, have a hysterectomy, and get some sort of penis through surgery. But genital reassignment surgery is forbidden, so first I’d have to sue the State to have it allowed in my particular case; and that trial would involve invasive examinations by doctors and psychiatrists. The upside? If you win the trial, the public health system will cover your operation. The downside? Uh, almost everything — the requisite of body modification, the disempowerment of the citizen to decide for hirself, the cost and toil of suing the State. Some people have managed to dodge the requirements, though, for instance by promising to get surgery but not getting it. As more and more people win their trials, rulings are getting ever more flexible — some judges don’t require surgery, others ditched the need for a diagnosis, and now a trans man managed to win his case without being on hormones. Something similar happened with gay marriage — before the law changed, several judges started approving individual marriages until a new law seemed almost inevitable. Also, gay issues became more visible at that point and they started being openly debated by society. Now it’s happening with trans issues: not only are these trials appearing in the media, but there are openly trans people on TV (the latest edition of Big Brother includes a trans male who is by far the most popular contestant). If all the laws pass, Argentina will have the best legislation in the world on trans matters. It won’t change everything –discrimination wouldn’t immediately end– but it would be one heck of a start. Activism, Politics and Mass Media Legal gender postaweek2011 Trans in Argentina This weekend, for the first time, I went on a date with a guy who didn’t know I was trans. We met on facebook –where we had several trans and trans-friendly friends in common– and he was super cool about trans issues, but I wanted to meet in person before telling him. In previous flirting situations I had disclosed my trans status early on and it ended up being a conversation-stopper, so I was curious about this new strategy. (Besides, I wasn’t sure yet if I was super interested.) We had dinner and then talked for hours. In person I wasn’t really attracted to him, but I decided to disclose anyway to see how he’d react. I said, “I didn’t always live as male”, which was kind of ambiguous, so then I clarified “I’m a trans man like so-and-so”. He didn’t seem too shocked, although he did stare harder at me for the rest of the conversation. I went on to say, “I thought I should tell you because I know it changes things.” He answered, “It doesn’t change anything for me,” and after a pause, “You’re really cute.” It was a super positive experience, and it’s too bad I’m not into this guy. I was doubtful about this disclosure-after-meeting strategy because I thought men might feel disappointed: they might still find me attractive after finding out –they might me despite being trans– but I wouldn’t be what they’d expected. I reckoned that if guys knew about my trans status early on and they still wanted to meet me, I’d be sure that they liked the whole package (which is nicer than being liked despite this or that). But this guy really took it in stride; if anything, he seemed more interested afterwards. I know that not everyone will react this way (some people have a hard time with unexpected surprises of any kind) but it was a huge confidence boost. I feel like more and more doors are opening for me in the dating world; or rather, they were always unlocked but I had never dared to try them. Celebration Dating Personal progress coming out date dating disclosure gay gay trans man trans man transfag “Coming out” on a date I started hormones over five months ago, but hesitate to say that I’m “five months on T” because there was a 4-week period during which I had no (synthetic) testosterone in my body. I needed to get a new prescription from my doctor, and went later than I should have (it was exam season); then I discovered that my insurance would cover part of the cost (yay!), and the paperwork took some time. I noticed some people wondering what would happen if they skipped an injection or two, and I wanted to share my experience. What happened to me might not happen to everyone –I had been on T for only four months, and not everyone’s body works the same way– but I thought it was worth telling. My body told me it was time for my next shot before I had even checked the calendar. It was the last week of school and despite being excited, I felt I lacked physical energy. I also had no appetite and started skipping meals, but I didn’t know if these things were due to my hormone levels or to the intense summer heat. I only confirmed that it was hormone-related when I re-started T and began to enjoy food and exercise again. These changes (or reversal of changes) were only mildly disappointing, but I felt really frustrated that my voice was going back. I don’t think it happened to my average speaking voice, but before stopping I had been pushing into a lower, more resounding range –especially when I sang– and I couldn’t reach that anymore. I did regain the ability to sing higher. I had mourned the loss of that ability, but losing my new lower voice felt worse (so now I know that losing a high voice was worth it). What really scared me was the prospect of getting a period (I had my last one two days after starting T). Towards the end of my no-T interval I had dreams that I was menstruating, and that freaked me out because I used to have those dreams immediately before actually getting a period. I was lucky, though, and it didn’t happen. Although I’m frustrated to have gone backwards with my transition –now, three weeks after a shot, I’ve only just regained the changes I’d experienced– I appreciate the opportunity I had to rethink and confirm my decision. I am more certain than ever that this is the right choice for me, at least for now. Testosterone & Surgery HRT postaweek2011 stopping t testosterone Being off testosterone Around Christmas, my dad and I had consultations with two surgeons –both recommended by other trans guys– about taking my tits off. I’ve thought about it ever since identifying as trans and finally decided that this surgery is right for me. And I came out to my parents over a year ago, so they’re pretty ready, too (although they are scared — more on that later). Both surgeons are confident that I’m a good candidate for the peri-areolar procedure. I was astonished, being borderline A/B  cup, and having come to terms with the prospect of big scars from the double-incision method (both are described here). As the doctors explained the operation, I realized that they were describing the purse-string/draw-string/concentric circles procedure, which I had seen online; I had always assumed that it was rarely done, therefore not an available option. I’d like to share the resources I’ve rounded up about this kind of surgery. I’ll include places where you can see “before” pictures because I didn’t believe I could get good results from peri until I saw how chests like mine turned out. Resources on peri-areolar top surgery The main obstacle to understanding this procedure, for me, stemmed from all the different terms used to describe it. Some call it simply peri-areolar; others specify “peri-areolar concentric circles” or “peri-areolar with purse-string (draw-string) sutures”; and still others use the terms peri and keyhole interchangeably. What distinguishes peri from keyhole is that a ring of skin is removed around the areola, which makes this procedure available for medium breasts where there is excess skin. The edge of the remaining circle is larger than the areola so it has to  be drawn taut like a drawstring bag. The result is a puckered border, although it smooths  out over the following months. It can be done on A to B cups, depending  on the surgeon and your skin elasticity (important to avoid puckering or wrinkles). In keyhole, there’s just a small incision below the areola through which breast tissue is sucked out. No skin is removed, so it’s limited to small A or AA cups. More detailed descriptions Dr Medalie explains peri and double-incision, and how he decides which to use on a patient. (Warning: graphic photos of the procedure being performed.) “Mastectomy in Female-to-male Transsexuals”: journal article by Japanese surgeons. They describe –very thoroughly– their three techniques and what type of breast is recommended for each one. (Warning: black and white images of surgery being performed starting at page 3.) Spanish/español: “Cirugía de reasignación sexual de mujer a hombre” describe tres tipos de mastectomías y también operaciones genitales. (Hay fotos de antes y después.) Photos and personal accounts Gender Outlaw described his experience with this kind of procedure and continues to post pictures where you can see how he’s healed in the long term (see posts tagged “chest  surgery” and “transition photos”). Jasper posted pictures from before and after surgery until 4 weeks post-op. He had a full B cup, but turned out fine. Warning: graphic images of healing nipples. XXBoy also documented his surgery; see his “top surgery” tag or his post summarizing the whole experience, including how he lost a nipple (which is uncommon) and how that made him feel. Transbucket has hundreds of user-submitted pictures of all kinds of trans/genderqueer/etc related surgeries. You have to register, but it’s well worth it. Some people post “before” images.   The McLean Clinic has two  sets of before/after pictures of what looks like peri (it’s described as  keyhole, but I think the “before” chests were too large not to  need skin removal; it might be a difference in terms). People on Youtube who talk about having peri: isaacgwood, nekoboi17, fateofmind05, blckpanthurr1, transposeme, drfchest, Thanks to everyone who shares their transition experience — including, but not limited to, surgery! http://www.mcleanclinic.com/ftm.php Links information postaweek2011 Resources surgery top surgery Peri-areolar chest surgery I haven’t posted in a long time. It’s true that now I don’t have such an intense need to explore my identity through writing, but I still think a lot about gender, trans issues and transition, and blogging is a good way to discuss these ideas with you all. So I loved Jacky’s proposal to take up WordPress’s weekly post challenge. When I first started posting, I felt encouraged by several bloggers who were also exploring their identities or who were chronicling their transitions (Ryan, Jacky, Luke, Julian, Eliot, Joshua, Malcolm…). Most of these people gradually stopped posting, and at the same time a vibrant trans community developed on Tumblr and Youtube. I wonder if everyone moved there; maybe there still are traditional blogs which are trans-oriented and active, and the reason I haven’t found them is that I stopped looking. Either way, I wanted to thank Jacky for the nudge back to blogging. For me, it’s one of the best ways to sort out my thoughts and challenge myself intellectually, and I get the same rewards from reading other people’s posts. Expect posts on the language of transition, and top surgery, and why I no longer think I’m femme. And, perhaps, the obligatory testosterone updates  ;) Happy New Year to everyone who follows the Gregorian calendar! Uncategorized meta postaweek2011 A new year’s resolution? Before starting T, I thought that for the first few months I’d write down/photograph/film every tiny change, post about it, and annoy the heck out of my readers. However, I haven’t felt that urge, although I know I should start documenting the process so I can look back in the future. Also, I’d like to share my experience here because  most blogs/vlogs are about changes on testosterone injections, which is why I felt so in the dark when I was prescribed T gel (besides, there are lots of myths going around about transdermal T — more on that later). As of today, I’m fifteen days on T. I didn’t expect to see any changes within the first month or two: both the doctor and the info I found online warned me to be very patient while on the gel. So imagine my surprise when, on the second day, I felt my vocal cords aching! I thought that I might be coming down with something, but I didn’t get sick, so I guess it was the T. From that moment on, I’ve intermittently felt that same tension in my larynx (not exactly pain; it’s analogous to how your muscles feel when you stretch), and since the sixth day I’ve had the feeling of having something stuck in my throat that lots of guys talk about. At first I could hardly believe this was happening so early on, but I guess it’s plausible because my voice hasn’t actually changed yet: I can just feel it preparing –slowly– to do so. Still, I find myself gravitating towards the lower portion of my vocal range, where I could previously only go when I was waking up or sleepy. On the tenth day I was rubbing my chin and noticed it felt furrier than usual. Before T I already had a few thick and dark hairs, besides the peach fuzz and the in-between (dark but thin) hairs that cover my whole beard area. Now my entire chin is starting to fill in with thin hairs, and a few of the thin hairs are becoming thick. That’s pretty much it, but I’m really excited about what’s happening: facial hair and vocal changes are what I was most looking forward to. I’m so glad that I’m noticing some progress; it takes all the anxiety out of going slowly, and I’ve actually started to enjoy going at this pace. Since I know that I shouldn’t expect anything drastic just yet, I don’t pay that much attention to my body, and so I was pleasantly surprised by the changes that have happened, which are tiny but important. Also, I think it’s beautiful that I’m starting in the middle of winter, when we know the land is starting to prepare for spring even if there are few visible signs. I think that my body is absorbing the T in much the same way, and if my estimations are correct, my changes should start really coming in around the same time that the Earth bursts into flower. It’s going to be stunning. Technicalities: every day, I apply 5 grams of 1% testosterone gel (that makes 50 milligrams of T). It’s enough for many cis men to maintain their hormone levels if they don’t produce enough/any T, and it seems to be an average starting dose for trans men, although many have it increased after a doctor checks their blood levels. I think that 5g might work for me because I’m a small person, but we’ll see when I get my levels tested. I’m happy with my dose for now. Body Celebration Personal progress Testosterone & Surgery changes gel T t gel testosterone transition Changes on testosterone gel (2 weeks) I started T on Monday! It doesn’t feel like it’s really happening because my doctor insisted on prescribing gel –and a low dose, at that– but I’m glad that I’ve been able to start on something. Part of the reason I haven’t been posting is that since February or March I’ve been actively searching for an endocrinologist who would work with me, and it proved to be more patience-draining than I imagined. I could get testosterone without a doctor –it isn’t a controlled substance in Argentina– but I chose the safer path. (I’m sorry if the following account has a negative tone to it: this whole ordeal has been very emotionally taxing. I’ll try to at least be neutral and point out the bright side, and in a day or two I’ll write about nicer things, like my experience with the gel.) The doctors covered by my healthcare either declared themselves incompetent or unwilling to supervise such a treatment, so I ended up going to a public hospital that has a trans health program. It’s really impressive that such a program exists in a public (government-run and therefore free) hospital, but it has a huge downside: they still require a gender identity disorder diagnosis, and it has to be done by their own psychiatrist. They wouldn’t even accept a letter by my psychologist of two years. And since the hospital has so many patients, one can only get appointments every two weeks (at best) so the diagnostic process lasts several months. I’ll write about my experience with the gender psychiatrist later; it got ugly at times. He could tell from the first day that I was ready for T, so we both knew my seeing him was useless, but he was very reluctant to approve me in less than his usual time. I was lucky, though, and he sent me forward after some three months (most people have to put up with him for 6-12 months), not counting the months I had to wait before my first appointment. As an aside, I’m grateful that I didn’t have to pay for my diagnosis — I know that in other countries where it’s still required, one has to pay for it out of pocket. So far, the only thing I’ve had to pay for is the gel (which is expensive, but not so much because it’s generic). So a couple of weeks ago I finally went to the hospital’s endocrinologist, who prescribed testosterone gel. I’m not a huge fan of how this doctor works: he acts like a technician, only looking at lab exams and not seeing the person at all. Also, he did not like it when I tried to ask questions — he only half-answered them and said “I know what I’m doing” as if I were questioning his authority (I just wanted to know a few things). But after enduring the psychiatrist for so long, I don’t want to leave the program and take hormones unsupervised. I have mixed feelings about the gel. It was definitely not my first choice, but I had absolutely no say in the matter. I’d feel okay about it if I knew this was the first step, a way of seeing how my body reacts before switching to injections. However, since this doctor doesn’t like to explain things, I might be on gel forever for all I know (and I met a few patients of his who have been on gel for a really long time). I have to see him again in a month, so I’ll try to talk to him about this. I’ve researched the gel and I’m not as prejudiced against it as I used to be, but these doctors’ lack of patient communication skills are really getting on my nerves. All in all, though, I’m grateful that (1) I have access to a doctor who will supervise my physical transition; and (2) I was finally referred to that doctor and given the green light for starting T. Yes, I’m frustrated because I don’t know how my doctor plans to treat me, but it doesn’t compare to how tense I was when my fate still lay in the hands of the gender psychiatrist. Hey, I’ve been on T for five days! Personal progress Rants Testosterone & Surgery doctors gel testosterone Starting testosterone therapy Last week, my dad and I went to talk to my school’s authorities about including my chosen name on the rosters. They decided not to let me, even after a long discussion where we presented evidence that my request was, in fact, legal. I’d found some legal documents in support of trans students; plus, I pointed out that some of my Asian classmates have chosen Spanish names which are listed alongside their legal names. Although their situation is different from mine, it proves that non-legal names are in fact routinely used. As an aside, I think the system is rigged to let teachers stay in their ethnocentric, ciscentric comfort zone: it’s probably “easier” for the teachers to use traditional Spanish names, whereas it’s so hard to use the right pronouns when you know someone is trans! It’s a reminder that apparently different oppressions are rooted in similar attitudes. Although I believe the decision was deeply unfair, and that I could have won the case if we had taken some sort of legal action, I’m lucky that the school’s head is surprisingly LGBTQ-friendly (unless, of course, she has to take a risky stand). She tried to find some other solution, and we finally agreed to have a meeting with my new professors before the beginning of the school year. My dad just got out of that meeting –I wasn’t invited– and called to say it went well. I’ll ask about the details when he gets home. The idea of a whole meeting centered around me is really embarrassing, and I hope my professors aren’t annoyed that they had to attend. But I guess it’s better for them to hold a grudge against me than to be called by the wrong name for an entire school year, especially because –for the first time in five years– I’ll be having new classmates who won’t necessarily know that they shouldn’t use my legal name (during all of secondary school, I had the same 30-35 classmates in every single class because we all had to take the same subjects). Besides, I’m trying not to feel too embarrassed about the meeting because it isn’t really about me — it’s about educating my teachers about how to treat a trans student, and why it matters (almost like “diversity training”). For instance, my dad was going to tell them that –even though I’m very engaged with my studies– I often avoided participating in class in fear that the teacher would ask my name, or  to avoid hir from calling my name. Looking back, that was really hard because we often had awesome student teachers, the kind who get you really involved, and I did NOT want them to know my name — but I was bursting to join the discussion! All in all, I’m glad that I got the principal’s support; whatever my professors’ attitudes, I won’t have to wait in dread –during the first week of school– until each new teacher pulls out their student list, and struggle to correct them –in a terrified voice– in front of 35 other people. School starts on Monday, and I’m really looking forward to it! Names Personal progress School coming out education Legal name professors teachers trans transgender Teaching teachers to respect trans students Here’s an update for those of you who’ve been following my personal journey (thanks for being there!). I’d like to expand on most of these topics later, so I’ll try to be brief. –I’ve been on summer vacation for the past few months. –My parents are ever more embracing of my trans identity: they don’t use male prounouns/names yet, but they try to avoid female ones. They’re also helping me with tons of stuff: coming out to family, finding open-minded doctors, asking for a name change at school… I never thought they would be so accepting, so quickly. –I’ve found an endocrinologist who will work with me, although she has to send me to a hospital to get a T prescription (this week I’ll find out if they’re willing to treat me). –The school year starts in a week. Although I’m beginning my first year of university (!), I’m going to take most of my classes at my secondary school. That’s because the University of Buenos Aires requires a full year of introductory courses, and a few schools (including mine) offer those classes to their students. –I’ve been dealing with an anxiety/phobia issue that’s probably related to transitioning. –I started going to the gym, where I was consistently perceived as male.  I didn’t like it much, though, so I stopped going. I’ve been very reclusive and introverted for the past few months — my infrequent posting attests to that, as I haven’t even been writing, let alone talking, much. I’ve always prized a certain degree of solitude, but this level of withdrawal hasn’t been good for my health. It’s a hard place to get out of, so I’ll start by trying to write a little more. Personal progress What I’ve been up to This piece “Lillian”, by an FTM poet called Miles,  blew my mind so hard that it forced me out of the lull in my blogging. Miles was given the name Lillian by his parents, but in this poem he tells the story of guarding that name for his future daughter. Given the distress that so many trans people –myself included– associate with our birth names, it’s so liberating to see someone rebuild that pain into an idea this sweet and beautiful. Here’s the video and –after the jump– the transcription I typed up. If anyone knows anything about Miles, please let me know — I’d love to hear more of his work, but the video doesn’t have enough information to go on. Edit: commenter Andy let us know about Miles’s blog.  “Lillian” by Miles I will name you Lillian because to me it sounds like running through a garden and with every step you take in life I want you to feel as beautiful as the flower I’ll call you. And don’t worry about your mother: whenever I meet her, I’ll convince her I deserve naming rights. But more importantly, Lillian, you will inherit from me the one thing the world will let me give you. I can’t hand you my curly hair or blue eyes, so you will have the name that has followed me from birth certificate to driver’s license to passport, all the while knowing it was never really mine. Your middle name will be Olivia. For years I hated the name; it burned through the paper of any official document I filled out, seared my ears when it escaped the tongue of a stranger, and annihilated my entire body anytime I had to incorrectly introduce myself. But Lillian, I understand what happened now. See, I am just the middleman; the accidental address on the package. The name was given to me, to hold onto for you, my future daughter. For you I keep it safe, protected from people who gawk at me, not understanding why my short hair and masculine appearance can’t match the sweet femininity in the name. Or people who do understand and hate me for it, attacking the way I bypass the barrier of biological sex because I know that what I feel is more important than what I see in the mirror. And people who think I should conform to the name I was given, ignoring everything I know about myself, the same people who will someday hate our family because of me. But through it all, Lillian, always remember that I love you. I’ve never met you, but I love you. My future daughter. So I hold the name under my shirt, against my chest, and with every heartbeat the syllables provide me a new sense of rhythmic direction. Because I know I’m moving towards you. The name Olivia no longer hides in the back of my throat but floats off my tongue. A promise of beauty; a promise of purpose. A promise of you, my future daughter. Someday, Lillian Olivia, after you’ve mastered the art of the two-wheeled bike, I’ll take you to the top of the tallest hill in town and we’ll soar down, secretly wishing we could take off into the rushing wind and at the bottom I’ll tell you that that feeling was how your father felt, knowing someday, you’d be in his world. And he’d finally get to give you your name. Spoken Word, Music, Arts FTM lillian miles poem poetry slam Spoken Word FTM slam poet: Miles Yesterday, my dad organized our family’s first Boys’ Night Out. I wasn’t invited. I had managed to swallow my frustration and get over it, but today several people told me how much fun it was. Plus, I missed seeing some of my cousins who live far away. I’ve been pretty happy and busy these past weeks –which is why I haven’t been posting– but this really annoys me: my dad knows I’m trans, and he knows how much I enjoy spending time with my male cousins and uncles. Does anyone else have a story about being left out (or included!) in family events because of (or regardless of) gender? Rants family gender transgender Boys’ Night Out I signed up for college a few weeks ago and was instructed to confirm my registration online around this time of year. A while ago I tried to do it: I typed in my ID number, found my legal name, and proceeded to answer several statistical questions: Which secondary school did I attend? Do I have a car? Does my home have a computer? Am I male or female? At first I answered “male”; went back and marked “female”; decided it was just for statistical reasons and clicked “male”. But when my registration was almost complete, I was asked to confirm my personal data: I was going to need it to pick up my student ID. I found out that my sex wasn’t just a statistical fact: it was one of the three or four pieces of information that the college considers important. What would happen if I marked “male”? My whole application might be considered invalid, although my full legal name and ID number should be enough to prove my (legal) identity. This university has a quarter million students; if I mess up, fixing my mistake would be a bureaucratic nightmare. So, why not pick “female”? After all, my legal name is already there; it’s not like choosing “male” would fix the identity mismatch. If the system had classified me as female from the beginning, I wouldn’t have minded so much; I wouldn’t have to mis-identify myself. But having the choice right in front of me –and nobody physically present to ask “Are you sure you’re male, Rosa?” (not my real name)– is sooo tempting. It’s hard, not being able to choose what feels right; having to define myself in a way that’s grossly incorrect. I’m going to think this over, but I know I’ll probably mark “female”; I don’t want to risk missing a semester because my info wasn’t processed correctly. In any case, I have to argue with the registration people to let me include my preferred name somewhere, so I can fight this battle when I do that. At least my student ID picture will look like me. Genders in everyday life Legal gender Rants School college gender legal name name paperwork student transgender university Paperwork I’m really impressed with this PSA. It’s about a trans man who hooks up with a cis (non-trans) man and is pressured into having unprotected sex: the cis dude hints that he wouldn’t be able to “keep it up” with a condom because he’s not used to trans bodies. Actually, the PSA title translates to “I won’t wear one for you”. (It’s in French, but you can choose English or French captioning.) Thankfully, I’ve never been in this situation, but I really empathize with the main character’s decisions. The cis guy makes him feel inadequate because of his body –making it seem like he’s doing him a favor by sleeping with him– and the trans guy allows him to drop the condom as a way of “making it up” to him. It’s super tragic, really: the cis man makes the trans man feel lesser-than, undesirable and unworthy of respect. But it doesn’t seem uncommon; there’s actually a medical study about this same subject called “There’s No Pamphlet for the Kind of Sex I Have: HIV-Related Risk Factors and Protective Behaviors Among Transgender Men Who Have Sex with Non-Transgender Men”. I’ve been watching this video over and over because it’s so rare to see my own issues represented in any kind of media. Like I’ve said, I’ve never been in this scenario, but I do constantly navigate cis/trans power dynamics and I really feel the need for more stories about gay or queer trans men which reflect these kind of problems. I’m fascinated by how strongly I relate to the main character in this PSA; also, I love how his body is celebrated in the surreal dream/dance scene. If anyone knows about any media (videos, short stories, poems) about gay trans men, please share in the comments! I recommend the German movie Romeos, which is a love story between two men, one trans and one cis. Activism, Politics and Mass Media Dating condom use condoms gay gay sex gay trans man gay trans men psa safe sex safer sex sex sexuality transfag transfags transphobia video PSA: Safer gay sex for trans men I only started assuming a male identity when I realized that I didn’t have to reproduce the dominant types of masculinity; that I didn’t have to be misogynous, oppressive, and rude. Of course, not all men are like that, and many women are, but I had to overcome that mental hurdle. I’m not the only one: it seems like many other transmasculine people have the same internal struggle. I aim to embody a non-violent, non-aggressive form of masculinity. Since I started being perceived consistently as male by strangers, I’ve striven to be especially aware of what a male presence might mean to women. For instance, I try not to walk too close behind women because I know they might get nervous; being in her situation makes me nervous, too. In fact, I don’t know why I single out females (and kids, and the elderly); in a way, I’m reproducing the stereotype that those groups are defenseless. I feel that, as a guy, I have a debt towards all of womankind, but I’m kind of conflicted about that simplification: gender isn’t the only source of power. In any case, I think I’ve succeeded in looking relatively harmless. My small and non-muscular body helps, too. But recently I’ve realized the costs of gentle masculinity. Apparently, looking peaceful makes me look passive, and that in turn makes me look vulnerable. At least, that would explain why people try to rob me so much, threatening me with violence. Apparently, young teenage boys are the target of preference for mugging. But why? Is it because we aren’t physically strong enough? Because we haven’t yet learned to be aggressive? And why only boys: do more girls shout for help, or are strangers more prone to help girls and women? I’ve learned two things from these experiences. First of all, that I want to take a self-defense class to feel safer on the streets (Which one, though? Can I take a women’s class?). Second, I  think this is a physically-explicit example of why boys reproduce hegemonic masculinities: it’s about survival. Maybe mugging experiences aren’t essential for most boys, but I remember that the least aggressive guys in primary school were singled out for bullying. They were called fags, and people who look like fags can still get attacked on the street. In that context, I bet that all the guys tried to look tougher; the ones who couldn’t had a hard time. Even now, knowing about power and privilege, it’s hard for me not to wish for the ability to look more threatening to thieves (although I’d like to be able to turn it off for everyone else). So imagine what the threat of violence –physical or verbal– can do to a growing boy, too young to think about the big-picture consequences of his attitudes. Add all the media images of masculinity, and that’s enough to suppress any visible signs of gentleness in young men. There are lots of neat articles out there about radical masculinity and feminist masculinity. I just hope I’m brave enough to embody what I believe is right. Genders in everyday life Theorizing aggressiveness boys gender growing up masculinity men strength violence Male vulnerability My parents never cease to surprise me. They were so disappointed when I gradually cut my hair and started wearing “men’s” clothes: I had a really hard time doing those things because I knew they suffered. For a long time, my mom looked at me as if I had a terminal illness, except right before haircuts — then she couldn’t look at me at all. Never in my wildest dreams could I have imagined their reaction! When my dad found my letter, he woke me up just to tell me that he loved me very much and that he’d deal with my mom. He showed her the letter today, and they both came to tell me that they had imagined many of the feelings I had written about, and that they just needed time to adjust. Neither of them feel ready to use my chosen name, but that’s fine by me; it would feel weird, anyway. I’m partly relieved and partly wary — it’s hard to believe that they aren’t going to confront me at all. But I’m trying to wave those concerns away, because even if I do meet resistance in the future –when I start T, for instance– it’s useless to worry right now. In any case I know that I’m immensely privileged to have gotten such a warm response. I just wish it could be this way for everyone. This whole experience goes to show that people’s reactions really can’t be predicted. I had read about cases like this, where open-minded parents respond badly or viceversa, but for me, the lesson only sank in through experience. Celebration Personal progress coming out parents transgender youth Best Parents Ever Several weeks ago, I wrote a post stating that I wanted to come out to my parents. I didn’t change my mind: I just wanted to come out at the right moment, and I knew my parents were going to be really busy until now. I planned on coming out yesterday, but I lost my mind on Sunday and couldn’t finish my letter. And then I didn’t know how to actually hand it to them. At this very instant, my coming-out letter sits on the kitchen counter, waiting for my early-bird dad to find it a few hours from now. I don’t feel as nervous as I did during the last few days. I’ve been planning this for so long –writing the letter, finding resources they could relate to, printing out articles by supportive parents of trans children– that it feels as if I had come out already (almost). At least, I’m getting this over with. The tension was affecting me physically. Really, how shocked can my parents be when they read my letter? I’m pretty sure my mom noticed that I bind. They already assume I’m a lesbian, so being trans can’t be SOOO much worse. In some senses it’s “worse” –I’m altering their whole perception of their child— but they’re already afraid for my safety; and it might be safer to be a straight-looking guy than a visibly queer woman. On the other hand, I wasn’t much of a tomboy growing up, so they might hang onto that as “proof” that it’s just a phase. These predictions are probably useless, because they’re going to react with their hearts rather than their minds. Even if my trans identity were totally obvious, and made perfect sense, they would still be shocked. Wish me luck :) And above all, the confidence to get through this unscathed. Personal progress coming out letter parents teen transgender youth Big coming-out moment Hooray! The Pride March is today! Celebration buenos aires lgbt pride Pride pride pride For months, I’ve been attending a journalism course where all my classmates think –or thought– I was a cisgender boy. I’ve known the teacher for a couple of years –he used to teach at my school– so he knows I’m trans, but no one else figured it out. I used to think they might, but since then I’ve learned that most people in my context will see me as a guy. I could say that I “pass” well, but I know that in other places I might be perceived differently; so I won’t take any credit. That class was my safe haven; the one place where I was treated unconditionally as a boy. Until very recently, only my closest friends managed to use my preferred name and pronouns, and on my insecure days I doubt that they really see me as a guy (well, I know they can’t, but it only matters on insecure days). With my journalism mates, I knew that my masculinity wouldn’t be constantly in question. If I didn’t bind too tightly, no one would think “ah, her –his– breasts are showing”; they wouldn’t even be aware of my chest. If I didn’t act super-macho, they wouldn’t attribute it to my female past. Having that space to look forward to, every week, helped keep me sane. I might say that I was/am “stealth” there, but I didn’t feel like I was lying. Although I always got along well with my classmates, we’ve never spoken much about our personal lives. I didn’t have any reasons to come out as trans, and I did have a very good reason not to: my maleness would begin to be questioned, and I didn’t know if it would hold up to their scrutiny. Some people, after learning I’m trans, suddenly start using all the wrong pronouns; after all, for a heteronormative mind, it’s very easy to see me as a female/girl. I did not want to lose my gender oasis. This last class, the teacher invited a gay activist for us to interview (gotta love this teacher). The activist was really trans-positive, so afterwards, when we were walking together to the bus stop –him, a classmate, and I– I mentioned I was trans. My classmate was surprised and said I didn’t have to “hide” who I was — uh, sorry, I was being myself when I introduced myself as a guy. But all in all, she was cool about it. Also, she wasn’t sure whether I was a trans boy or a trans girl — I love it when I confuse people that way. (I might miss my androgyny a bit if I take T, although it’s worth it.) Knowing this person, she’s probably going to tell some of our other classmates, which is fine. We only have a few lessons left before summer break, so I don’t have much to lose, and it’s a good chance to teach the other students a couple of things about trans people. First, that we aren’t always visible. Second, that we can be kinda nice people. A couple of kids made transphobic jokes at one point, so I hope I make them reconsider their view of trans folk — or at least, make them think twice before telling those jokes among people they think are cis. I’m not going to change the world, but I think tiny actions like this do help a little. I hope that, someday, I feel strong enough to do more. Uncategorized coming out FTM stealth trans boy transgender A gender oasis Finding my first name was easy: it popped into my head suddenly and I simply knew that it fit. My middle name won’t be so important, so I can relax and think about what it will mean to me: do I want it to have a symbolic meaning, honor someone I admire, or be original? I thought of using something rare because my first and last names are pretty common — there are two people at my school with my same full name. I considered a couple of non-Spanish names, but using something non-European seems like cultural appropriation, and using something from the elsewhere in Europe –especially something in English– seems like selling out to cultural imperialism (although, of course, Spaniards came to this land through colonialism). I want to read more about these issues, but in the meantime, I think I’ll stick to Hispanic names. At least they feel more familiar. I also thought of using my old name as a middle name, but right now, it’s hard for me to even hear it. Sometimes, when I stumble over it unexpectedly, I feel a little confused — is that really my ID? Both reactions –rejection and detachment– aren’t exactly positive, so I can rule out that option. Actually, I don’t even know if it’s legal for a guy to have a girl name: the Argentinian naming law forbids any names that cause confusion about a person’s sex (it also forbids “extravagant”, “ridiculous” or hard-to-pronounce names, which sounds rather imprecise). There are traditional exceptions, such as María José for a girl and José María for a boy. In any case, right now, it’s impossible for me to get a name or gender change on my ID for legal reasons that I’ll explain in a future post. My best choice is my dad’s middle name. I love it for several reasons: it’s a way to pay tribute to my father, I like how it sounds, and I like its initial — it fits well into the rest of my name.  Plus, I identify strongly with it, and its meaning seems appropriate: “new house”. My first name, by the way, means “free” — interpreting broadly, I’d be free to find my place in the world. Those meanings aren’t uber-important to me; it’s nice to know that my name doesn’t mean “cranky”, but that doesn’t have much weight in daily life. People are more likely to associate other people with their namesakes rather than with their name’s origin. For instance, the name Eva, to most Argentinians, would evoke Eva Perón rather than Adam and Eve. None of my names has such a strong association, which is fine by me — it could become an onerous burden. And I want to be “free to find my own place in the world”, don’t I? For now, at least, I’m enjoying the freedom to try on different middle names. Names choosing meaning middle name naming transgender Finding a middle name This week, it finally hit me: in two months, I’ll be done with secondary school. I only became fully aware of the consequences today, at a “how to sign up for college” information session. I thought I wouldn’t have to sign up until next year; as it turns out, registration is next MONTH. So I have to figure out, pronto, how to get signed up with my correct name. I chose a college which, according to many word-of-mouth sources, has a “preferred name” system for trans students. However, I haven’t found any documents confirming that. Even if it is true, the person in charge of enrollment might not be aware of that, so I should be prepared. I tried calling several information numbers, unsuccessfully, and I sent emails to three different info addresses. If all fails, I’ll try going in person. I’ve chosen to stay at my school for an extra year to do introductory college-level courses  –allowing me to skip a whole year at the university– which is why I thought I wouldn’t have to sign up at college yet. I do, though, and on top of that I still have to persuade the secondary-school principal to accept my preferred name.  The good thing is, if I manage to change my name at school but not at the university, it won’t be a big deal — I’ll have an extra year to work with that. In any case, I have to come out to my parents soon. I promised myself that I’d talk to them right after graduating, so I can move forward with my life a bit. I’d like to start testosterone next year and actively research chest surgeons: I thought a lot about this, and I want both. Since graduation dates got pushed far into November, my coming out plans fall dangerously close to Christmas. I don’t want to postpone this indefinitely –even though it’s the VERY SCARIEST thing I’ve ever done– so I might talk to them before ending school. I don’t want to ruin my graduation, but it might be best to it during the school year so I have something to distract me for most of every day. I hadn’t decided on this before typing this post, so I’m feeling pretty shaken now. But I’m glad that I’m finally going confront my greatest fear. In Spanish, it’s called “huir hacia delante”: fleeing forward. I don’t know what’s going to happen next, but at least I’m going to be moving somewhere. Genders in everyday life Personal progress bureaucracy college coming out fleeing forward name parents School transgender university Signing up for college with the “wrong” name Several of my classmates have started using my new name, or at least my gender-neutral nickname. What a relief. I didn’t get around to proactively enforcing my name, so I’m not sure what happened. Maybe one of my friends realized I was upset about this issue and she asked people to please respect my gender. Or maybe it was bound to happen eventually, once I reached the critical mass of people who use the right name. It’s contagious! Seriously, though, I think people feel less awkward if others are also using my new name. In any case, I feel grateful. Now I’ve encountered a new challenge. After years of practice, I got so used to interacting with my classmates from a defensive place that now I don’t really know how to act. I’m not complaining, and I certainly don’t want to go back to a gender-hurtful situation; I just need to relearn how to open up a little with this set of people. I’ve spent almost five years with them, and some are really nice; it seems worth a shot. I’m glad that I’m experiencing this now, right when I’m ending one stage of my life. Even if I can never overcome the safe distance I’ve placed between my classmates and me, it won’t be a big deal: I’ll be moving on to college soon. It’s a chance to start over. I’ve read several trans people’s stories of feeling empty when they “finish” transitioning: when they’re satisfied with their bodies, everyone respects their names and pronouns, and gender ceases to be a huge issue (even for people who consider transitioning to be a lifelong process). I think that by beginning my transition at this point, I might avoid some of that feeling. Since I’m just starting to build my own life, I won’t have to base my whole existence around feeling uncomfortable with myself. For instance, I like thinking about how society works. If I didn’t have my gender issues at least half figured out, I might center my whole college education around gender, sex and sexuality. And when I sorted out my gender, then what would I have left? What would my aim in life be? I’m still interested in sex and gender identities, but I don’t feel such a tremendous need to study them anymore, now that I’m pretty comfortable with myself. In college, I’ll be able to find other subjects that interest me, too. It is a little confusing to deal with gender concerns while I’m still dealing with other teen and coming-of-age stuff such as friends, parents, the future, newfound responsibility and independence. But it probably isn’t much easier to transition later on, when one has to deal with work, aging parents, family, and possibly spouses and kids. Now, at least, I’m allowed to make mistakes and redirect my life in accordance to my personal changes. People of all ages deserve to do this, but unfortunately older folks who do this might be frowned upon. Maybe I’m just saying all of this because I don’t know much about Life and Growing Up. I tend to think of college as a tumultuous time of rapid growth, change and discovery; it’s hard for me to imagine feeling empty during those years. But I’m sure that it depends on the person. Many trans people probably never feel a post-transition vacuity, and many people –trans and no– experience emptiness for lots of different reasons. How did you feel after going through your gender process? Did you feel empty? Confused? Relieved? (Thanks to everyone who shared tips and stories about watching Boys Don’t Cry.) Celebration Names Personal progress emptiness gender growing up growth post-transition transgender transition The post-transition void? I just realized that Boys Don’t Cry is going to be on TV in an hour. It might be the scariest movie I’ll ever see, but I want to try and watch it. I’ve made a promise to myself: I’m going to stop watching if the film gets too strong. Maybe I should switch off the TV as soon as Brandon is about to get raped. Has anyone seen it? Should I avoid the ending? Edit: The TV guide was wrong — Boy’s Don’t Cry isn’t showing. I still intend to watch it someday. Uncategorized Boys Don't Cry Brandon Teena Boys Don’t Cry I have facial hair. I haven’t been injecting testosterone: it’s just been there for years. I remember being embarrassed about it when I was 13 or 14. I hadn’t seen any media images of women or females with moustaches, so there surely was something wrong with having facial hair (I use “women” and “females” interchangeably because, at that point, I thought they were the same thing). The same went for leg hair, and for a while I was really paranoid about the hair on the back of my hands. I had heard that shaving made things worse –since you can see the thick base of the hair instead of the thin tip– so I tried depilating creams, plucking and wax. Ouch! Eventually, I realized that there were women with body hair — lots of them. Who would have guessed that media representations of women were far from accurate?! I had been so busy feeling ashamed of myself that I hadn’t realized that some of my female friends had even fuller moustaches than I did. If I hadn’t noticed, maybe no one could notice my hair, either. I relaxed a little, although tried to I keep my facial hair at a minimum until I started identifying as male. That’s when I started shaving. I thought that shaving didn’t truly stimulate growth, but in the past year I started noticing that my facial hair was more visible. My moustache and sideburns probably look darker due to shaving, but my chin is definitely developing more and more thick hairs — not a full-blown beard, but past the “allowed” female amount. It might be the shaving, it might be hormonal; I only know that it’s there. My body is typically female and it grows facial hair. So why are beards construed as male? No wonder Leslie Feinberg includes (cissexual) women with beards under the gender-variant umbrella: they’re defying the very rules of what female bodies are allowed to do. I’m trying to tie in my critique of male/female body construction with the fact that I want my body to look more male-typical: I want the narrow hips, the beard, the low voice. Those seem like opposite notions — my desire to transition physically appears to reinforce the construction of a male, masculine, man’s body. I think the connection lies within the idea of freedom: people should be allowed to do whatever they want with their bodies, no matter if they don’t fit into traditional notions of what a “normal” body looks like. And I should do whatever I want with my body, even if that brings my body closer to the standards of what men’s bodies look like — after all, if I withheld my deep desire of transition in order to “free the gender/sex system”, how could I be freeing myself? I’d just be creating a new set of standards that limit my liberty. I know that my facial hair doesn’t make me any more of a man. I could identify as a woman and still embrace it. But it’s something I enjoy, so I’m going to go ahead and embrace it. As a person. ——————————————————————————————————————————————— PS: your might be interested in Female Faces: How facial hair influences women’s everyday experiences, a site created by a woman who sports a goatee. It includes a thesis on the subject, resources and a message board. “Prepare to enter a world where women’s beauty                  is not defined, it’s simply embraced.“ Body Childhood Theorizing beard construction facial hair female body gender male body mustache shaving trans transgender Facial hair: the construction of female bodies One of my favorite webcomics is “What’s Normal Anyway?“, by Morgan Boecher, about a really sweet trans dude. The latest one is really appropriate for this point in my life: Humor Uncategorized comic love webcomic Cute webcomic “Girl meets Girl. Girl becomes Boy. Girl and Boy become a band. Meet COYOTE GRACE.” I just found out about the band Coyote Grace — I loved the song “A Guy Named Joe”.  A lot of their lyrics are about being trans: isn’t that neat? Music can express universal emotions, but there are certain experiences that most people just don’t have. It’s nice to see one’s life reflected in a song every once in a while: I am a self-made man, born with my two hands I been waiting for so long to finally stand But I have no history, one day I just came to be I barely know who I am —Ghost Boy  (lyrics for A Guy Named Joe) I also liked the words to “Daughterson” — the title announces great things, and the first stanza is the perfect trans kid’s rant: My haircut don’t look right, my clothes don’t fit just right, them boy clothes are too big and the girls’ too tight. My feet, they look too small, and I ain’t very tall, I fight with my mom every time I go to the mall. I couldn’t find the lyrics anywhere, so I transcribed them (although there were a few lines I couldn’t catch). The video and transcription, after the jump.  Daughterson by Coyote Grace My haircut don’t look right, my clothes don’t fit just right, them boy clothes are too big and the girls’ too tight. My feet, they look too small, and I ain’t very tall, I fight with my mom every time I go to the mall. If I can’t be your daughterson, I ain’t nothing at all. …. Kids won’t leave me and my queenie brother alone. I don’t get picked to be on teams, oh I am scrappy and I’m mean, Those girls seem to look right through me. My body has betrayed me, my life is so upsetting. If I had only known about those girls, they saw me all right. But I’m obviously a man, but I sit down on the can, I get shots on the leg by my lady’s loving hand. I got scars across my chest, Dr Brownstein is the best, Ain’t no one can make me wear a dress. Well, just because I’ve done this doesn’t mean you’ve got to do this too. You don’t know what it’s like, now do you? Well, I think there’s a few of you that do. You say I’m going to hell, well I’ve been down that well, And God is a big boy, he can judge people himself. “Don’t mess with God’s design”, well, where do you draw the line? How ‘bout botox, fat pills, warfare, deforestation, laser hair removal, the death penalty… Well, I think I’m doing fine. Well, you’re so scared of everything… And who are you to force me to believe what you think Jesus meant? I grew up under blue skies; the pain has made me wise. My body is my home, I won’t ever be alone, I’ve found my place behind this microphone. Well, I have chose my consequence, I have chosen my name. And I can be your daughterson, ’cause they’re one and the same. Links Spoken Word, Music, Arts coyote grace daughterson guy named joe lyrics music song trans trans man transcription transgender Daughterson: Coyote Grace I haven’t been posting lately because I’ve been feeling pretty down. School has been awful: my classmates haven’t understood that I need to be called by my new name. This week was the worst — on Wednesday, the very second I stepped foot in the school building, I felt tears of frustration welling in my eyes. I spent the whole day trying not to cry, and since then I’ve constantly felt on the verge of a nervous breakdown.  Even the librarians have learned my (legal) name, so I’ve lost my favorite hiding place. Today was much better, though — it’s only going to school that makes me feel so bad. But this could be a good thing. I’ve reached a point where going to school feels so bad that something has to give. I know I’m not going to ditch school –the school year finishes in only three months– and I know I’m not going to spontaneously combust. That only leaves one option: my classmates have to start using my new name and pronouns. So, I have to convince them to do that somehow. I think I’ll need to enlist one of my best friend’s help to achieve this. I hope I haven’t lost her friendship yet — I’m sorry to say I’ve been kind of hostile to everyone recently. Feeling like your identity is being constantly ignored doesn’t help to put a smile on your face. And I hope I can explain my emotions well — I tried to tell her, once, how I felt about my name, and did an awful job. I might have said the opposite of what I really meant — I can be that bad at explaining things out loud. Writing is easier because there’s less pressure and you have a chance to reorganize your ideas. Maybe I should stick to writing letters when it comes to clarifying trans stuff. This could be a huge chance for learning how to stand up for myself. I could regain some of my old friends. I didn’t lose any friendships because of coming out, but several people simply couldn’t get their names/pronouns right, and I couldn’t bear to be constantly surrounded by people who ignored my identity — so I eventually phased them out of my life. Maybe, if I had clearly stated my position, I could have saved my friends. All in all, I could get a lot out of this lousy situation. I included a description of my negative feelings in this post because I want to remember how bad it feels to be called by the wrong name. I know that, when the going gets rough, I tend to wonder why I’m transitioning at all — wouldn’t it be easier to be a butch woman? At those times, I need to remember why I started to change my name and pronouns, why it would not be easier to “just be a woman”. If I don’t remember, I might enter a loop where I start transitioning, reach a roadblock, go back to “female”, feel awful, move towards “male”, etc. Plus, I’ve found some really awesome laws which should protect my gender identity at school. More on that later. I’d like to start posting some actual, thoughtful content again — I’ve sure been thinking a lot. Personal progress Rants classmates coming out name pronouns School transgender Things should get better now. A month ago, I posted about a “photo project on transphobic and gender-baiting questions”. The photographer just published a bunch of images online (hat tip to en|gender):  The subjects, self-identified people of transgender and transsexual experience, hold signs depicting questions that each has had posed to them personally– some by strangers, others by loved ones, friends, or colleagues. Presented on white wooden boards, the questions are turned on the viewer, shifting the dynamics under which they were originally asked, and prompting the viewer to cast a reflective, self-critical eye upon him or herself, revealing how invasive this frame of reference can be.  Several of the questions really resonated with me. “Who will want to date you?” “Are you sure this is right for you?” And the pictures are absolutely beautiful. Enjoy. Spoken Word, Music, Arts a series of questions L Weingarten photo project photography questions transgender transsexual A Series of Questions Today, our psychology teacher suddenly started talking about sex and gender (she’s my most open-minded teacher, which is why I sort-of came out as trans to her). She did a pretty good job. For instance, she didn’t state that “some people’s genders don’t match their sex”, which is a common thing to say but favors one sex/gender combination over another. Instead, she said that we usually associate a certain sex with a certain gender, although other combinations are certainly possible. Alas, she kept speaking in binaries, and defined gender in a peculiar way: as masculinity and femininity. I do agree that those are important parts of gender, but I tried to point out that there’s another significant component — being a man or a woman (or something else). I think these are very different concepts. Sure, they tend to be bound together –which is why I sometimes feel conflicted over wearing pink pajamas– but they aren’t inextricable: I have learned to embrace my traditionally feminine traits without feeling any less of a guy. The example I gave in class: a person can be “born” “male”, identify as a woman, and be masculine. Unfortunately, the teacher didn’t understand my point, but at the end of the class she approached me and said “I’m not an expert on these subject; you could bring some material to the class, if you want”. I think I accepted; I was very nervous at that point, having talked about something so close to home, and in the environment which makes me most insecure about my gender. I usually love discussing issues of sex/gender/sexuality, but maybe it isn’t worth doing that among these particular classmates. On the other hand, it might be an opportunity to make my them understand my identity. They do sort of know I’m trans, although I haven’t come out directly to most of them; I guess, to them, I’m a butch lesbian who wants to be a man. It would be a great relief if they started using my chosen name. I don’t know what I’m going to do — I don’t even know what the teacher meant by “bringing something to the class”– but, just in case, I’m looking through Audacia Ray’s Human Sexuality Syllabus 2.0 for articles explaining gender/trans 101. Scarleteen’s Genderpalooza article is a good resource, too. When the teacher approached me, I mumbled something about Judith Butler, although I don’t know if she’s written anything short and accessible; I also thought about the theorist Beatriz Preciado, but the same goes for her. Do you have any recommendations? Trans 101 articles, or websites that help you to explain the complexities of gender? Uncategorized education gender gender 101 Resources sex sex/gender trans trans 101 transgender Teaching Gender 101 I saw my future self on the subway: he looked like an older, testosterone-filled version of myself. I tried to  sneak surreptitious glances at him, to see how I might look in the future, but I think he noticed because he started staring back. Either that, or he recognized me too, as a past version of himself. We even got off at the same station and headed in the same direction. When I lost sight of him, for a split second, I wished I had asked how he was doing –how we were doing– in life. Maybe I have been reading too many stories involving Doubles (Borges, Cortázar), but still: wouldn’t it be neat to be able to speak with your future self, to know that you’ll survive the tough parts of your life? (Of course, it could backfire: what if you met the future you and hir life was a mess?) When I got home, I looked in the mirror, and realized that my “double” and I didn’t look so alike, after all. But it was a strong experience while it lasted. And I’m glad that he looked relatively happy. I also had a dream in which my father pronounced my new name for the first time. It was set in a very dramatic seaside landscape; I still remember the salty breeze, the texture of the stone wall we sat on, the way he carried me in his arms. Because at one point, he carried me in his arms. I love him so much. I think I’ve had my head in the clouds lately. It’s kind of nice up here, even though it’s hard to articulate words, ideas or actions in this state of mind. Personal progress double future self identity self transgender Seeing my future self Sorry for being pretty negative lately. School starts again on Monday, so that will probably distract me — or drown me in stress and wrong pronouns. I’m hoping for the former! But right now, I need to take a load off my chest. There are lots of details in life which can become issues when you’re trans. Like when I wanted to sign up for an extracurricular class at school, and then I realized I would have to use my legal name. In that particular case, I happened to know the teacher, so we managed to work it out. But there are dozens of other little moments where things like old names can get in the way. Before the holidays, a few teachers assigned homework that we had to send in via email. When I decided to change my name, I also changed my email address because my old one included my girl name. I kept my old one, too, although I only use it when communicating with family members. After finishing my homework, I had to be very careful to send it from my old account; I double- and triple-checked to make sure I was signed in with the correct user name. And then I couldn’t sign my messages, because there was no way I was signing my old name. Being called by my girl name does hurt –depending on who says it, how, and how many times I’ve had to put up with it recently– but it’s nothing compared to having to introduce myself that way. Now that is corrosive. When someone else names me incorrectly, I feel misunderstood, or even detached: “oh, you mean me?”. When I name myself incorrectly, I’m betraying myself. I’m putting up with the way others define me. In class, even though I have to passively accept the name that appears on the lists, I never have to actually assert it. I sign everything with my last name, and my very appearance is partially indicative of my gender. But the simple act of sending an email is an identity declaration, and in this situation I didn’t know how to declare myself without hurting my feelings or my grades. Yes, I may have blown this slightly out of proportion. Maybe I’ve just been angsty lately, but sending those emails was painful, as was putting up with the teacher’s answers, which were fine, except for the name they called me. I actually abandoned my most important school project — it’s hard enough as it is, and I couldn’t bear the added strain of discussing it with my teacher via email. I’ve had that in the back of my mind for weeks, stressing me out, but right now I can’t deal with it. Not as a girl. I hadn’t realized how important my name was for getting on with my daily life. When I see myself as a trans genderqueer boy, or whatever my identity is at the moment, I feel much more confident. That’s why the whole struggle to get my name recognized is worthwhile: it’s easier to sustain my identity when people aren’t using a name that denies it. In the meantime, I’m trying my best to hold my ground. To be nobody-but-yourself-in a world which is doing its best, night and day, to make you everybody else— means to fight the hardest battle which any human being can fight; and never stop fighting. —e. e. cummings Genders in everyday life Personal progress Rants annoyance e. e. cummings email identity Introduction name recognition School teachers transgender Defining yourself. Incorrectly. After being in a situation where someone asked me several rude questions, I started looking online for good and/or funny comebacks. Tarald recently linked to this video, where Red and Charlie answer some of the most common trans-ignorant questions:  I love the answers to “What is your real name?” and “Are you a man or a woman?” (Charles: “No.” Red: “Yes!” Charles: “Well, I have a cunt, so that makes me… a man.”) There’s an entire transcription up at Genderfork. I also found a “photo project on transphobic and gender-baiting questions” called A Series of Questions:  “A Series of Questions” is a photo project exploring the power dynamics inherent in the questions asked of transgender, transsexual, genderqueer, gender-variant, and/or gender non-conforming people. Participants are photographed holding a sign upon which is written a question they have been asked. The questions are then turned on the viewer, shifting the dynamics under which they were originally asked, forming a larger series of questions which many of the people photographed face as a part of their daily lives. –from the site  There’s only one photograph on the site right now, but the author is going to upload some more. I’m eager to see them! Humor Links a series of questions answers comebacks funny ignorance questions rude trans transgender transphobia Answers to transphobic, ignorant questions Just for fun, I copied all the gender terms from the Yay genderform and turned them into this image through Wordle (click to enlarge): gender! I like how the “none” is sticking right out of everything. And how “man” and “woman” are buried among a sea of other options. Celebration Humor Words and terms beyond the binary gender terms wordle words yay genderform Completely optional The terms “pre-transition” and “post-transition” have always sounded a little awkward to me. “Pre-transition” makes sense when we’re talking about physical changes: you can determine the exact date when you started hormones or when you got surgery. “Post-transition” isn’t as clear cut: it might start at the moment when you feel satisfied by your body. Personally, I wouldn’t define myself by my body, although maybe I can only say that because I “pass” pretty well. I think my transition started around the time I assumed a male-ish identity. I could say my transition only consisted in that moment, but I accept that slowly changing my life is a big part of the process. Lots of people consider that transition doesn’t end for them, and that sounds right for me too. But “transition” means a transit from one state to another: does it make sense to use that term if you don’t define an ending point? Lately I’ve started to question the very word. I’m not criticizing its use by other trans people –plus I might keep using it myself– but I’ve been thinking about it. We have the chance to remake ourselves every day. I’m aware that reinventing an identity isn’t simple: I couldn’t start wearing “boy” clothes without a struggle with my family, and my friends couldn’t switch pronouns immediately. But at the same time, I started introducing myself with my new name whenever I met someone; I never had to transition with these people. Where would all of this leave me along the transition line? I don’t think this process can be mapped along a line; there are too many different aspects to it. If you can’t draw a line –if it’s a huge amorphous neverending beast of a process– can you still call it a transition, or is it just life? I guess there will be a point in my life when gender isn’t an issue anymore, at least in my daily life. Gender will probably never be a non-issue personally and legally, but when everyone in my life uses my chosen name and pronouns, I suppose I’ll look back on this gender-messy time and call it “transition”. It’s just hard to imagine that future. Theorizing Words and terms process terminology trans transgender transition On the word “transition” If you’ve been reading this blog for a while, you might remember that a few friends and I founded an LGBTQ student group at our school. At first I was really excited, but I haven’t been doing much for some time now. That’s partly due to the difficulty of doing trans activism in a mostly lesbian and gay group, but I’ll write more on that later. Right now, I’m feeling tired and down and I just want to rant a little. Where do you get your strength when it takes every ounce of energy you can muster to hold up your sense of self every day, only to have it trampled by people who can’t —who won’t— even see who you are? When every single day you have to rebuild yourself from the ashes of a girl who is no longer there? Where do you find the strength, even if you’re surrounded by people who loved you as a girl, when only a handful of them support you as the boy you are? Sometimes I lower my standards. I say to myself, you’re lucky to have gotten this far alive; you’re lucky to be able to get up every morning; you know people who couldn’t stand the pressure. You don’t have to push yourself any further. But if I don’t push myself, if I can’t even stand up for myself and claim my rights, who is going to do it for me? What right do I have to feel tired already when there are so many people living in much worse conditions than I am? How can you stand up for your rights when just standing up is so damn draining? Where do you find the strength? Activism, Politics and Mass Media activism inspiration rant strength tired Where do you get your strength? In my last posts I’ve mentioned this guy, H., who I’m sort of dating. He’s absolutely amazing and I can’t believe he’s interested in me. He’s beautiful and kind; a brilliant scholar and a human rights activist. This should be a good thing, but he’s so great that, often, I can’t fathom why he’d want to spend time with me. My self-esteem is usually okay, but it keeps faltering when I think about him, and I think part of it is internalized transphobia. My self-doubts aren’t only about being trans, of course. I can’t help comparing myself to him and I obviously don’t measure up: he has already changed the world through his work –this is not an exaggeration– while my biggest accomplishments are getting good grades and staying alive. Oh, and impromptu singing/dancing performances in public spaces. But a large part of my insecurity does stem from being trans. Surprisingly, it isn’t only about my body: somehow, I’ve discovered entirely new things to be insecure about! (My body is part of it, though. It doesn’t make sense because I like my body, and so does H, but I can’t help feeling that I’m letting him down.) I’ve always been proud about my past and felt glad that it led me towards feminism, the trans community and friendships with lesbians. I still am, but it’s glaringly obvious that my place in the world is very different from cis gays like H. We belong to the same community, but we experience it in diverging ways. I don’t know if I’ll ever be accepted as “one of the fags” –people might always see me as just trans– and my solidarity is strongest towards dykes and trans folks. And even beyond the community, in our everyday lives, being trans makes me different: I inevitably have endo or gyno appointments, endless name-change paperwork, trans guy meetings… And that’s okay, but sometimes it feels like I fall short, you know? I can’t help thinking: here’s this guy who could choose from a large selection of men, so why would he settle for an anonymous trans dude? If he could pick someone similar to him, why did he go for someone different? I know this reasoning is deeply transphobic and difference-phobic; I know we the trans people are not lesser than anyone, and that any relationship involves overcoming differences. So I’m working hard to remind myself. And I’m trying to relax and enjoy being with H, because –whatever my worries– he does seem to like me. Dating confidence dating gay gay trans man internalized transphobia self-esteem transfag transphobia Dating and internalized transphobia I couldn’t resist a brief interlude on the word phusis (which, in Greek philosophy, meant something like being): Phusis means the emerging sway, and the enduring over which it thoroughly holds sway. This emerging, abiding sway includes both “becoming” as well as “Being” in the narrower sense of fixed continuity. Phusis is the event of standing forth, arising from the concealed and thus enabling the concealed to take its stand for the first time. –Heidegger, Introduction to Metaphysics, chapter 1. God, that’s stunning. I think it’s a beautiful way to describe emerging identity; becoming who you feel you are. There’s something about the idea of standing forth that feels empowering: “here I am, this is who I want to be, and now I want you to see that”. Personally, I’d rather not exist in a state of “fixed continuity”, but the word “sway” sounds pleasantly fluid. I know Heidegger didn’t mean any of this, but this is how he made me feel. When I reached this part of the book, I got goosebumps. Words and terms becoming being phusis transgender Becoming and Being I started working out at home recently. I have gym class twice a week and realized all those situps were paying off: my stomach looks slightly more defined. If I could achieve that much with a not-so-strict gym teacher, then who knows how far I can get if I actually apply myself? I know that my biceps could be in a much better state than they are right now, and it would be awesome if I could burn just a little fat off my hips. I’m not aiming to be a bodybuilder. I’ll probably be a scrawny shorty thing for the rest of my life and I’m ok with that. But it does feel good to be in control of what I look like, especially since I won’t be able to get on testosterone for a year or more. I can’t force my face to grow a beard, but I can make my muscles look the way they would if I had more T coursing through my veins. And a little exercise can’t be bad. (Well, it could be bad if I totally lost it and started working out all day. But somehow, I doubt that’ll happen.) I googled a few exercises focused on hip muscles, but mostly I stick to situps and pressups. Our gym teacher told us that girls should kneel to do pressups, which requires less effort. I never know what to do when she gives different instructions for girls and boys (thankfully I’m in a mixed-gender class). I usually try to do the “boy” exercises but stop if I feel I could hurt myself. I know that “male” bodies tend to have more muscle mass, but I don’t know if that justifies differential workouts. After all, not every “male” or “female” body is the same. Maybe there should be two sets of exercises to choose from, requiring different levels of effort/fitness, so we could choose. Or the teacher could recommend one set or the other to each individual based on body type, instead of lumping us into gendered (or, more accurately, sexed) groups. I guess it’s simply easier to divide us by gender. I just realized that body building literally means constructing your body. Which is exactly how I relate to my corporeal existence: I think of physical transition as constructing the body that fits me best. It feels great to start that process, finally, even if it’s only by developing a few muscles. Body Personal progress body building exercise gender gym P.E. trans boy trans man transgender working out Working Out & Gendered Exercise All schools in Argentina have just closed until August 3 due to the swine flu, which means one month of unexpected holidays. If you’re in the northern hemisphere, remember that it’s winter in the south, which means we shouldn’t be on vacation right now. Plus, it’s cold, so more people get sick. A lot of people are dying from swine flu around here, which is worrying since it shouldn’t be so serious. This happened pretty suddenly, so I didn’t have the presence of mind to get something extracurricular out of the school library. I’ve been meaning to read Foucault’s History of Sexuality, although I’m not sure I’d understand it; now would be a good time to try. The library might just be open until today, so do you have any recommendations? Keep in mind that my school’s library mostly has classics. Uncategorized foucault history of sexuality holidays library swine flu Swine Holidays Today, out of the blue, a schoolmate –let’s call her Q– began asking me about my gender identity. She started out by asking if my legal name bothered me, and was really surprised when I said that it does bug me a LOT. I was relieved that she asked: recently I’ve been dreading school, even if I do love certain classes, because it’s so tiresome to be called, over and over again, by a name that doesn’t fit (except by my friends, who try to respect my name and pronouns). I think all my classmates know that I’m trans, but they probably don’t understand what that even means; I imagine that they think of me as a weird faggysuperbutch dyke with a “special” name she likes to call herself. True, I’ve never spoken directly to them about my identity; I felt stuck in a limbo where it didn’t make sense to come out –everyone already knew– but I wasn’t out enough to improve my life, either. There were another two classmates present during my conversation with Q, and one of them promised to call me by my male name; she hadn’t realized that my female name hurt me (the other person pretended he wasn’t there; it was a pretty awkward situation). Maybe I could have gotten out of that limbo earlier had I told people directly that I was changing my name, but I don’t know how I would have done it. It’s hard to deal with people who aren’t exactly friends, but with whom you interact daily. Then the conversation turned towards inappropiate and intrusive areas. “You like girls, right?” “Do you want to get surgery?” “Are you like those men who are born with boobs and girl parts?” — I answered “yes” to this at first but then I realized she wanted to know if I was intersex; although she didn’t actually know that word. And I know that some cis men develop breasts, but I doubt they are BORN with them. I was caught off guard so I answered kind of incoherently. I feel a little frustrated because I tried to explain things in a way she could relate to instead of telling her that, in my opinion, body doesn’t determine gender (or vice versa). I know it isn’t my obligation to teach cis people about trans issues, but sometimes I like trying to open someone’s mind to another point of view. I also wish I had retorted something like “do you like girls? do you want surgery? are you hitting on me?” I am improving in the way I handle this kind of situation. I managed to deflect these questions somewhat, instead of answering personally: I said that who you are is different from who you’re attracted to, and that some trans people want surgery but not all of them, and that it’s a tough decision. Now that I think about it, I’m happy with how I reacted, given the surprise situation; and I think I’ll be more prepared next time. And I hope people at school start respecting my identity. Genders in everyday life Names Personal progress awkward boy coming out conversation identity questions School trans transgender Further Out at School – Awkward Conversation with a Cis Person In the documentary Boy I Am –about the relationship between trans men and lesbians– several people mentioned worries about teens getting hormone therapy: they held that every female-raised person goes through body issues during that period. This bothered me a little since the people saying this, for the most part, were not trans. And it actually clashes with my own experience. I didn’t grow up with any body image problems because, for most of my teen life, I’ve done a good job of ignoring my body. Whenever I did look at myself, I didn’t see anything wrong: my body fits pretty well into society’s standards of “normal”. I just didn’t identify with what I was seeing. I avoided mirrors because I was better off thinking of myself as a floating brain. Eventually, I started really looking at my body and thinking about how I perceive myself, and I realized that I would feel much more at home in a male-ish body. What about you: do you think that being transgender is comparable to having body issues? I consider this comparison to be inaccurate because it implies that you can shoo away the desire to physically transition by improving your self-esteem. It seems common for transphobic people to insist that we, as trans individuals, should “accept ourselves” — accept our bodies. But is it less “noble” to change one’s body instead of changing one’s mind? Some people say it’s the easy way out; yet is it really easier? The process for getting surgery or even hormones is hard and full of hurdles;  accepting oneself as a trans person in the first place, in my experience, can be even harder. In any case, choosing an easier path doesn’t make you a lesser person; in fact, in can leave you more energy to pursue other worthy endeavors. Still, I’ve been wondering: would it be possible for me to accept my hips, my chest and my beardlessness? It’s hard to look at myself naked, but it would also be fairly hard to get a prescription for testosterone, and it would be even harder to explain to my extended family why my voice suddenly dropped an octave. If I didn’t do anything permanent to my body, I wouldn’t have to worry about changing my mind in the future. But I don’t think I would ever be truly comfortable with the way I feel in my own skin. If testosterone can make me feel beautiful, sign me up. Like I usually say to people who don’t understand the wish to transition: we all deserve to be happy, in any way we can. Edited to add: I wrote this 2.5 years ago and I no longer believe that physical dysphoria can be neatly separated from other kinds of body issues; for instance, my past frustration with my curves might have overlapped somewhat with the feelings of curvy cis men. Now I think that all of us are exposed to images of “ideal” body types, and gender is a big part of that. Activism, Politics and Mass Media Body Genders in everyday life Theorizing body image body issues Boy I Am hormone therapy testosterone transgender transition Transgender Body Image For the past few months, I’ve been consistently perceived as a cisgender male by strangers and new acquaintances. I guess I might not have that privilege in the future: apparently I look like a 13 year old, so people will probably figure me out in more adult settings like college and job interviews. I don’t know how queer I look, though. A couple of things happened this week that made me think about this. First, I saw a gay couple in a restaurant; I was really happy because I only see openly gay couples in public two or three times a year, not counting the Pride March. I think I might have looked at the people in the restaurant a little too much, trying to figure out if they really were together. Now I feel guilty because if they thought I was straight, then they might have thought I was staring out of ignorance or hostility (“Whoa, two men? Loving each other?!”). I think it’s a different story when queer people look at each other in recognition and friendliness, but what do you think? Is it rude in that case, too? The other thing that happened: I think a man hit on me while we were on the bus. I’m not really sure because the bus was crowded, so maybe he couldn’t help standing close to me; and I couldn’t tell if he was looking at me because of his sunglasses, but his face seemed to point in my direction often. These and several other details led to me to think he might be attracted to me. Luckily, if he was hitting on me, he wasn’t doing it in an aggressive manner and nothing happened. It isn’t the first time that I’ve noticed “gay-looking” guys looking at me (they set off my gaydar, although maybe I’m just basing my judgment on stereotypes). I wonder whether they look at me because they think I’m handsome or because they can tell I’m queer. Knowing they probably see me as a preteen boy confuses me further: isn’t it weird if they’re attracted to someone so much younger? Can a boy already look gay at that age? There are many things I would like about being visibly queer, if it turns out that I am visible as a queer person (I don’t think I would change my appearance to become visible, though). It would make me recognizable to other LGBTQ persons and remind straight people that we do exist, although maybe it makes them believe that we really are recognizable at first sight. What makes a person visibly queer, anyway? Queers and straights come in all shapes, sizes and genders. I’d like to know how I’m perceived. My friends can’t really tell: they’re too close to notice and they must have a hard time seeing me as male, anyway. I’m also concerned about my safety, since gay males are supposedly at greater risk of violence. So far, I’ve been lucky, but still I hardly ever wear my rainbow pins on my backpack. There are some parts of being visible that I can control, and sometimes visibility is just too scary. Genders in everyday life gaydar lgbtq perceived perception Queer sexuality straight visibility visible visibly queer Being visibly queer A friend recently asked me for sanitary pad. Part of me wanted to get angry and say “why would you ask a guy for that kind of thing?!”; but then I realized that menstruation doesn’t need to be gendered. Sure, all sanitary napkins are marketed towards women, but when have (most) publicists ever been gender-savvy? I’m not especially proud of having periods, but I am trying to reconstruct them into gender-neutral occurrences; a side-effect of having a uterus (and low testosterone levels). Having a uterus isn’t half bad if it brings the possibility of giving birth, and having a vagina can definitely be fun. I don’t know if I’ll ever want a penis –more on that later–, but I definitely want to keep my vagina. This all reminds me of the Ani DiFranco song, Blood in the Boardroom, about menstruation: i say it ain’t no hassle no it ain’t no mess right now it’s the only power that i possess these businessmen got the money they got the instruments of death but i can make life i can make breath Body Genders in everyday life FTM gender gendered menstruation period trans boy trans male trans man transman uterus One Man’s Menstruation I’ve started speaking with my principal about changing my name next year; she seems to be worried about the legal implications, so I’ve been looking for legal precedents. There is a lot of new trans-related legislation, but the laws that apply to trans students aren’t valid in my city, and the ones that do belong to my city aren’t specifically about schools. Actually, there is one very important law that I could use, which refers to underage trans students, but I couldn’t find much information about it; I think I’ll need a lawyer’s help. The principal also wants my parents’ consent, which I’m not sure I can get. I’ll try, but I don’t think it should be necessary; I’ll be 18, after all, and even if my parents have some power over me until I’m 21 (depending on the situation), my well-being at school should be more important. In the meantime, I’ve been signing my letters to the principal with my male name, asking for permission to organize queer activities, and she’s been sending me the permissions with my female name. It makes sense because the bureaucracy wouldn’t find my male self in the system, but I’m going to continue signing that way. A few weeks ago I signed up for a career counseling group at school using my female name; I knew they would check to see if I existed in the system and I was afraid the school might call my parents if they realized what was going on. This group started today, but I really did not want to go voluntarily to a place where I would be called by my birth name. Until the last minute, though, I hadn’t decided whether to go or not: it could prove very useful, and it wasn’t fair that I couldn’t go because my identity. The friends that were present at that moment did not understand why I made such a big deal out of this; one of them argued that she didn’t like her middle name either, but she didn’t fuss so much about it. I sincerely told her that if her name bothered her so much, she should change it too. The point isn’t to compare our sufferings; that doesn’t lead anywhere. I believe we should all aim to be as happy as possible, no matter how small or large our complaints. I’m tired of hearing that worrying over names is silly. I’m sick of internalizing the feeling that it’s foolish to care so much about a minor detail. It is not minor, nor a detail: I heard a trans woman talk about friends of hers, also trans, who wouldn’t go to the hospital until they were very sick, in order to avoid the humiliation of being called by their birth names; not to mention the discrimination they suffered (there are laws now that protect trans people in public hospitals). No one would risk their life like that if it weren’t so painful and violent to be called by the wrong name. I ended up going to the career counseling group; it was awful. I decided that my Whole Future was worth being treated as female for an hour, but I hadn’t considered that we would have to introduce ourselves; when it was my turn, I got defensive and probably sounded hostile (oops) when I said I would rather not introduce myself. The counselor was not comprehensive at all and finally forced me to say my name; I couldn’t flee without making a scene. I wanted to run to the bathroom to cry while she went on and on about having to use your name whether you like it or not, especially within institutions where it’s legally needed. I obviously won’t ever go back, but I still think that’s unfair. And I’m more certain than ever that names are not foolish at all. Activism, Politics and Mass Media Genders in everyday life Legal gender Names Personal progress feelings identity legal name name School trans transboy transgender Names do matter Today I found a copy of Itty Bitty Titty Committee with Spanish subtitles. It’s the only movie I saw that has a transmale character –Aggie– so I had thought about showing it at school to help trans visibility (I still haven’t found the courage to watch Boys Don’t Cry). I looked for my favorite scenes and I noticed that the subtitles had typos: they said “ella” (she) when referring to Aggie. But they weren’t typos at all: every single time someone called Aggie “he”, the subtitles said “she.” Even when Aggie spoke, he used female words to refer to himself. I am very angry at the people who translated this movie. It’s amazing how the ideology of whoever writes the subtitles can change a whole  film: it can alter a character’s entire gender on a whim. They ruined the only happy transmale character I could show my schoolmates. We seriously need more positive movies about us; or maybe any kind of movie about us. I know there are a few films out there, but they have severely limited distribution. And they’re still only a few. Returning to the topic, this isn’t the first time I’ve seen a gaping difference –involving LGBT people– between the subtitles and the actual dialogue; once, on TV, “I know you’re straight” became “Sé que sos un hombre de verdad” (I know you’re a real man). I was flabbergasted. In both cases, apparently, translators have the power to decide who is a real man. Activism, Politics and Mass Media film FTM gay gender homophobia Itty Bitty Titty Committee movie spanish subtitles transboy transgender translation transman transphobia Transphobic subtitles I’m pretty short. I’m almost as tall as the average girl –1.60m or 5′ 3”–, which makes me shorter than almost all the men I know. I don’t really mind –I don’t feel inferior because of my height or anything; I hardly even think about that– but maybe it would be easier if I were a little taller. I could find pants that actually fit, for instance. What does annoy me is people’s attitudes towards short guys. I have a very short classmate and people are always teasing him about his height, while they don’t usually say anything about short girls. And whenever my friends are talking about the kind of men they like, they all agree that short guys aren’t attractive. I don’t think I can criticize their tastes, but I think it’s disrespectful to say that when I’m RIGHT THERE (they tend to forget I’m a boy). Actually, I can’t think of many advantages that come from being tall; maybe reaching high shelves, but you can use steps for that. And I never had trouble with my height as a girl. But sometimes  feel hurried to take testosterone because if I start before the end of puberty, I might grow a little (I checked a biology textbook that said bone growth might continue until age 20). I don’t know if I need that, but I know I wouldn’t mind; and I don’t want to regret missing out on this possibility. What would be great about growing is that my hips might narrow. The biology books I consulted say that estrogen makes hip bones grow wider (T does the same for the shoulders), so if T made me grow, maybe my hips would end up growing less than the rest of me. I’m usually more or less tolerant of my body, but I do not like having wide hips AT ALL. Anyway, my hips will look narrower with T because of the fat loss. I also heard that testosterone has better effects if taken early, but I haven’t found much information about that. It seems to have great results at all ages; Gender Outlaw started as an adult and his feet grew, which would be useful for me (I never find men’s shoes in my size). I should ask Julian in a few months; he’s 18 and just started T. This kind of info is very important for deciding when to come out to my parents, so I’m still researching it. I plan on telling my parents when I finish this school year, soon after turning 18, and I hoped to start T a few months later; but my psychologist thinks they will need a whole year to digest the information, so I should delay starting T. If that might mean missing the opportunity of having a body that’s better for me, I don’t know if I can wait. An alternative would be to tell them now and risk becoming an emotional mess in the middle of the school year, just so I can start T earlier. I’m trying to decide what my priorities are. Personal progress growth height puberty short boys short men teen testosterone transboy young Growing Taller with T “OH MY GOD!” I’m not proud that the Vatican chose an Argentinean Pope. Besides being complicit with the last military government, Jorge Bergoglio –Francis I– is particularly homophobic. That’s precisely why I laughed so hard when my lover, H., reminded me about something. H lives right by a Catholic church, and one Sunday morning I awoke in his house to the sound of church bells and a loudspeaker making an announcement. I tried to go back to sleep but the loudspeaker kept repeating its message every ten minutes, so eventually I gave up and paid attention to what it was saying: as it turned out, Bergoglio was visiting the church to say some special kind of Mass. Bergoglio is infamous in Argentina among anyone who supports gay rights, or women’s rights, or any kind of human rights, so H and I joked about attending Mass to get his blessing. It’s a silly story, but I find it amusing that my closest encounter with the new Pope happened while I was in bed with a gay man, under a huge rainbow flag pinned to the wall, in an all-homo household. Uncategorized anecdote story The Pope Judith Butler came to Argentina this week to present her new book (Who Sings the Nation-State?: Language, Politics, Belonging) and yesterday evening she gave a graduate class on gender performativity. I knew someone who was going to that class and he said I could probably slip in — which would be really lucky, because only 50 or 60 people were actually allowed to sign up. I spent the whole week in a dizzy disbelief: could it really be so easy to see such a legend? Yesterday afternoon I was walking down the street when I crossed someone familiar. Then it struck me: it was her! The real live Judith Butler! I said hello and thanked her for her work –very quickly, because I didn’t want to bother her too much– and she offered me her hand to shake. A day later, I think I’m still in shock. Later on I went to the college were the class was going to be held. I still didn’t know if I was going to be able to attend –I only sort-of had permission– but it was completely worth trying; and I ended up being allowed in. I thought I wouldn’t understand anything she said, but she explained her ideas very clearly. Plus, she was very funny at times. I’m glad I had the chance to hear her talking about gender, considering her latest work is about other subjects. Despite all the academic language, and despite being familiar with the main points of her work, some parts of her talk gave me goosebumps: I recognized much of my own life in what she said. I’m very grateful to everyone who writes about gender in ways that allowed me to free my mind. I’m not exactly sure whose ideas I agree with yet; I’m young and I have a lot to read and learn and experience. But I thank everyone who helped me see beyond the binary, and it was nice to see one of those people. Celebration gender gender performativity Judith Butler I saw Judith Butler This week has been pretty tough for me emotionally –I encountered one or more gender-related problems every single day– but a few nice things happened, too. One of my teachers is extraordinarily gay-friendly. She’s married to a man, but she keeps bringing up gay issues and addressing homophobia. This week we had to turn in a group paper for her class; everyone in my group had written their full name, but I had just signed my last name, so at the end of the period she called me aside. “Why didn’t you include your first name?” I panicked: “I don’t know. No reason.” She left it at that, but I saw her in the hallway later on and I apologized for being so blunt and defensive. I told her that I do not like my first name at all and I don’t use it. I didn’t think it was necessary or wise to explain any further; not all gay-friendly people are trans-friendly. She probably figured me out, though. In any case, she won’t call me by my first name; that’s a relief. It might seem an insignificant detail, but hearing my legal name over and over again gets stressful; if it weren’t, I might not have decided to transition socially. I also started an extracurricular class this week. I almost didn’t sign up because I didn’t know what name to use –what if I had to show my ID?– and because I already knew the instructor from another course I attended as a female. I ended up sending him an email explaining, very briefly, that I had changed my name. I decided that if he didn’t accept my new name, I wouldn’t attend these classes; I wouldn’t voluntarily go somewhere where I have to endure female treatment (except for school, which is worth it). I remembered this teacher as a nice guy, but some apparently open people don’t understand trans issues at all. It turns out that I worried uselessly: he sent me an even briefer email saying “Ok, see you!” and from the minute he stepped into the class he called me “he” and my new name. Moments like these make me hopeful about the future. Legal gender Names Personal progress legal name name School teachers teen transboy transgender Small name victories I spent several summer days rummaging among some awesome zines at the Queer Zine Archive Project. The creators think it’s important to preserve these zines “because of what they represented – a look at queers’ lives, stories, and histories that are seldom visible through mainstream media.” They also make for great reads: zines are usually very personal and sincere, poetic, and sometimes funny. Plus they delight the senses, with all the nice pictures and typography. I found a lot of gender, trans and genderqueer-related zines, both within the Archive and around the internet. Here are my favorites. In the Archive, click on “download document in original format” to see each issue. And be warned: most zines have some mature or graphic content. Gendercide: issue 1 (on being a boy in a boy’s body… but still being dissatisfied), issue 2 (on the lack of butches nowadays), issue 3 (“chemical warfare”: the effects of MtF hormone therapy) gendertrash: this is the oldest publication where I found the phrase “gender queer”  (1993, wow). Testosterone Junky: “When I strap down my tits, I can’t take a breath, but I breathe freer suffocating in layers than naked under another’s eye.” Project 76: The Politics of my Body: on being a fat FTM: “Max. He was this fictional character or maybe invisible friend or something that I used to draw when I was about eleven… The teacher asked me, why do you draw this character all of the time? I replied with I dunno. And the boy sitting across from me shouts out, ‘because she wants to be him when she grows up!'” the.naked.riot: one of the writers is a trans guy (here‘s a hand-drawn comic about testosterone therapy): …what happens when you have this mental image of yourself as your father’s oldest son, the brightest boy on the girl’s soccer team, and you start growing tits? Yeah, good question. from Post-Gender: confessions of a post-binary transsexual – in issue 1 The article The Big Gay Lie from HOMOzine always lifts my spirits: The Big Gay Lie is essentially the efforts of a group of a**holes who want to make sure you feel fat and ugly and generally horrible…But don’t worry. There are three simple things you can do to escape The Big Gay Lie. Step 1: Listen to lots of Bikini Kill or Gayrilla Biscuits and accept the fact that you’re 100%, no questions asked, without a doubt hot. Gender Trouble: brief comic on “the bathroom problem” — being unwelcome in any public restroom. Genderf*ck me: adult-content comic; I love the cover art. Portrait of the Artist as a Young Trannie: I’m still reading through this one. Links Theorizing gender Genderqueer Queer queer zines transgender zine zines Queer Zines Thou reader throbbest life and pride and love the same as I, Therefore for thee the following chants. –Walt Whitman When I started this blog, I didn’t think I was going to have many readers: I only wanted to sort out my gender confusion and participate in the conversation going on between all the great trans/genderqueer blogs out there. Eventually, I realized that people actually did read what I wrote (at least that’s what the stats said), and that felt really nice. When I started getting comments, that was even better: I learned about your thoughts and experiences, and found out that many of you were going through the same things as I was. That’s invaluable: if I had decided to write in a private journal, I wouldn’t have had the chance to hear your voices. Thanks for taking an interest in what I write and for sharing your comments; above all, thanks for reading. Blog Reader Appreciation Day 2009 Celebration blog reader appreciation day thou reader Thou reader When I was 14 I read about transsexuality on the internet. I was very gender-confused at the time, but I didn’t identify with those stories at all — I didn’t want to be a man. Eventually I settled into a lesbian identity. Some people are lesbians because of the girls, I was a lesbian because of the gender possibilities: lesbians could have female bodies, yet be as masculine as they wished.  Now I know that not all masculine females are lesbians or even women; heck, I’m not even that masculine. But it was the only identity that made sense to me back then. I wonder what would have happened if I hadn’t read about the concepts of trans-gender and genderqueer. Would I eventually have identified as transsexual? Would I have continued to be a butch female? Could I have been happy in one of those identities? I’m more than satisfied with my queer trans identity; but would I be happier identifying as something that hasn’t been invented yet? I’m curious about the people who invented terms like transgender and genderqueer; how they managed to put a finger on their not-yet-named identity and name it. That must require a tremendous amount of creativity and self-awareness, and the ability to read an identity as yet illegible to other people. I’m not done thinking about trans identities in their social context. For instance, I’ve been wondering about “passing women”: females who were perceived as male by everyone except for friends and lovers. They existed in the US in the early twentieth century. I wonder why that concept disappeared: was it because of picture IDs, which made it harder to hide their legal gender? Did those people even identify as “women”? I read Transgender Warriors by Les Feinberg a few months ago, but it left with a lot of questions; plus, I’d like to know more about the history of trans identities right here in Argentina (most of what I learned I’ve picked up from magazines and talking to trans people). This post by Tboy Jacky somewhat relates to the topic, in my opinion: he writes beautifully about how transition isn’t an absolutely necessity to some people, but the best path among the many available. Thanks for describing this so eloquently, Jacky! Genders in everyday life Theorizing Words and terms gender Genderqueer history identities identity labels passing women social context terms transgender transsexuality Trans identities in a historical context A lesbian friend and I were in the newspaper on Sunday. It was just an interview in which we talked about our lives as queer teenagers and our student activism, but it seems like it had a huge repercussion: people who didn’t even know us emailed it to others, it was posted on several forums and some radio show hosts even talked about. I heard mostly positive opinions, except for the nasty comments on the newspaper’s website, which I just stopped reading; it felt great to hear from strangers who were inspired by our “courage” (I would just call it “will to live”). I thought it would be cool to have our voices heard by the mainstream public. Most people never hear what life is like for a young lesbian, and they probably don’t even know that transboys exist (at least not in my social context). I’m all for visibility and awareness-raising… but so much exposure made me pretty nervous. Especially because some friends’ parents read the news, and I’m afraid that my parents might hear about it. I still haven’t talked to my mom and dad about my trans identity (I want to finish school first, in case things get tense), but  I appeared in one of the country’s major newspapers: I wonder how sustainable that situation is. Of course, everyone at school read it or heard about the interview. I figured that everyone knew I was trans, anyway, but apparently they still thought I was a butch girl (or a cisguy). One good thing: I’m as out as can be –if you don’t count my family–, and I haven’t been harassed at all; I haven’t even gotten the “is that a boy or a girl” comments this year. I did hear some classmates talking about me, and from the few words I could make out, they were talking about the article; but they didn’t sound disrespectful, apart from the fact that I was right beside them. There isn’t much bullying in my school, anyway; if anyone is transphobic, they certainly won’t confront me about it. If I had known how widely that article would be read, I might not have accepted the interview; but since I can’t go back, I guess I should be glad that it reached so many people. I hope it helps some queer or trans kid who might be out there. Activism, Politics and Mass Media Personal progress life news newspaper parents School transboy transgender transkid Guess which transboy was in the news? For every girl who is tired of acting weak when she is strong, there is a boy tired of appearing strong when he feels vulnerable. For every boy who is burdened with the constant expectation of knowing everything, there is a girl tired of people not trusting her intelligence. For every girl who is tired of being called over-sensitive, there is a boy who fears to be gentle, to weep. For every boy for whom competition is the only way to prove his masculinity, there is a girl who is called unfeminine when she competes. For every girl who throws out her E-Z Bake Oven, there is a boy who wishes to find one. For every boy struggling not to let advertising dictate his desires, there is a girl facing the ad industry’s attacks on her self-esteem. For every girl who takes a step toward her liberation, there is a boy who finds the way to freedom a little easier. This text  is just awesome. I think everyone should see it; I’d like to paint it onto a poster and put it up at school. Why do we have to gender every human emotion? Why can’t people see that we are all more or less gender-variant? No one fits the stereotypes; or stereotypes don’t fit anyone. So who should we fix, the person or the box? Sounds like a no-brainer to me. I saw this for the first time on a handout, at my first Pride March; this post at Labels Are For Jars made me remember. By the way, Labels Are For Jars is a blog by an incredible mother who doesn’t force societal gender norms onto her (also incredible) boy; check it out! Poem attributed to Nancy R. Smith. This site claims to contain the original 1973 version, called For Every Woman (different, but with the same general idea). Celebration Genderqueer Genders in everyday life Links boy expectations femininity freedom gender gender-diverse gender-variant genderfuck girl labels are for jars liberation masculinity nancy r. smith norms quote roles rules societal society stereotype Genderf*cked Check out Amanda Morgan‘s portfolio for some great photography. Besides the portraits of her trans lover, in her I AM A MAN series she takes on various male signifiers to explore issues of performative masculinity and its intersection with race, class and sexual orientation. My favorite: the picture of Mik’s whiskered chin. I am most interested in places where the lines blur –the in-between space that Gloria Anzaldua named The Borderlands– because in these places and spaces where the ground on which we stand and the identities to which we cling become destabilized, here is where I believe there exists a possibility for real transcendence and a deeper connection with our complex humanity. A year ago, I met a transman who has since become my best friend, my lover and my muse whom I believe embodies these thoughts and the beauty I see inherent in them. I photographed Mik before I even said a word to him because I found him so intriguing. Now I find him only more so as our communication deepens and he continues to confound categorization. (…) –From the synopsis for Mik, a portrait. Found via Coffee and Gender’s blogroll. By the way, I love this quote, featured on that blog: “In our desires to be recognized and valued in our chosen genders, we still have all the obligations, if not more, of socially conscious white masculinities. To fail in that obligation is to duplicate white supremacy, knowingly or otherwise.” – Bobby Noble Links Spoken Word, Music, Arts Amanda Morgan art gender mik performative masculinity photographs photography portrait transgender transman Portrait of a Trans Man Every once in a while I wonder why I can’t be a woman; in theory, I should be able to live with being a faggy butch queer dyke. I know that I started to transition because I couldn’t stand being a girl any longer, but I tend to forget exactly how I felt back then; I have to trust that my old self made the right decision. Sometimes, though, I have to present as female and it all comes back to me. I don’t like going out with my family, for instance, because I feel really confused and awkward when I’m perceived as a woman; and I never know if I’m passing as a girl, anyway. Today was my first gym class at school this year. I still wasn’t sure which locker room to use; at the last moment, I went into the women’s room with a friend. I kept hoping that no one would try to stop me: I knew I wouldn’t be able to justify myself confidently. To my surprise, no one did confront me; it seemed that most of the girls already knew me. I went into a stall to change and took my binder off so I would actually be able to breathe while I exercised. As I rushed out of the locker room –no use dawdling– it occured to me that, with my visible breasts, I belonged there. I did want to be accepted inside, but I hoped to be more of a welcome guest than someone who is actually supposed to be there. The whole experience made me remember why I can’t live as a girl. I felt exposed, humiliated, frustrated, and therefore hostile and upset. (Now I know why I never made new friends in gym! ;)) It was the last class in the day, luckily; I went straight home without changing or binding because I didn’t dare to go into the locker room again. On the way home I kept trying to hide my chest from complete strangers who didn’t give a damn about my gender. I’m surprised at how much I cared about people’s perception of me; I guess appearance is important for feeling confident. On the other hand, when I’m presenting as male, I don’t feel so upset when someone calls me “she”, so maybe the key to confidence is presenting in the way that comes easiest. I’m looking forward to tomorrow. I’ll be presenting as male, as usual, and even though many people still think I’m a girl, I know I’ll doubly appreciate all the people who respect my male identity. Genders in everyday life boy class confusion doubts feelings girl gym identity locker room School secondary school t-boy tboy trans transboy transgender Why I can’t be a girl I’ve been thinking about a fun Trans 101 activity we could do at school. I really want to get my fellow students to rethink gender, but it’s hard to convince people to come to an educational thing voluntarily. So maybe I should start out with the people who come to our diversity group meetings (queer-straight alliance type thing we founded last year). I could print out a version of the Yay! Genderform and hand it out. Sarah from Genderfork thinks that might work, and I do too (thanks for the idea, Sarah!): Hey, so I’ve been on this little kick lately to try to get people to see their gender as a list of descriptive words. For example, I want to claim my gender as: female, androgynous, queer. The people I explain this to tend to get it — it makes sense. But then, when I ask how they identify, I get a deer-in-headlights look of “Oh! Um! Off the top of my head? I dunno!” I have a little theory that if I handed them a list of pre-approved Gender Words, they’d have a much easier time with this exercise. Maybe people would be overwhelmed at first, but if you include funny terms, or words that cisgender people can relate to, they might loosen up and play along (things like “glamorous” and “friend of Dorothy” should be well-received among a queer crowd). Julian also suggested printing out your gender badge and handing it out to people. I’d like to make stickers and paste them onto every form that asks you to  check “male” or “female” (a “none of your business” sticker would work, too). PS: The Yay! Genderform is now 929 terms strong — I suggested “puto” and “tortillera”, which are Spanish for “fag” and “dyke”. The list seems to be growing every day! Activism, Politics and Mass Media Genders in everyday life Humor Words and terms activity cisgender exercise experiment gender genderform Genderqueer genders identities identity list School terms trans 101 transgender words yay What’s your gender? – Part II I recently met this man through mutual friends –let’s call him H– and we’ve already seen each other a couple of times. I still have no idea where this is going to lead, but I like him and he makes me feel really good. Part of it, of course, is that he makes me feel desirable, attractive and respected, but partly it’s because he makes me feel like a gay man. This is confusing for me because it’s been a while since I’ve needed any sort of affirmation of my gender. Actually, I’ve always gotten uncomfortable when someone goes out of their way to prove they see me as a man; I’ve never even identified completely with the idea of manhood. And I used to scoff at phrases like “he/she makes me feel like a man/woman” –when pronounced by anyone, trans or not– because I thought a person’s gender shouldn’t depend on anyone but themself. I felt this kind of validation for the first time when I went to a rather seedy gay establishment with several queer trans guys. Lots of men checked us out and even approached some of us, and it felt amazing because (in the words of a friend) “we stopped being seen as trans and began to be seen as hunks”. I didn’t engage with anyone there, but I left feeling super empowered, like I finally belonged. Later on, I made out with a friend and I was completely floored by the way our beards and leg hair rubbed together, and by the way he ran his fingernails across my body, which was so different from the light touch I had experienced with girls. Spending time with H has been especially incredible because he’s always known I was trans, but it hasn’t been an issue. We’ve both talked about our pasts, including my transition, and he has seen me naked, but he’s never made me feel different. Partly it’s because he’s amazing, but I think my attitude helps, too: I’ve managed to embrace my body and history so my comfort kind of rubs off on others. I finally feel like a gay man not only in theory, but in practice. I don’t really care about being A Man or not, but being a Gay Man –and being with gay men– feels just right. I love the way H caresses my beard and body hair, the way he holds onto my hand or shoulder on the street despite the occasional insult hurled against us, and the weight of his large hand on my back as we drift into sleep. I am thrilled by the idea of being someone’s gay lover, although I don’t want to get my hopes up because he’s too perfect to be true. But I’m also scared by how good he makes me feel because it could end at any moment. I  guess love is always like that, though, and I just have the extra fear of feeling excluded from the gay world once again (which is silly because there will always be more men who are into me, like I wrote last week). I suppose cis gays feel this too, especially if they don’t resemble the “ideal” gay man, although they mostly don’t have a history of gender denial to throw into the mix. I know I’m not alone in my feelings because they’re echoed in an article called “There’s No Pamphlet for the Kind of Sex I Have: HIV-Related Risk Factors and Protective Behaviors Among Transgender Men Who Have Sex with Non-Transgender Men”: “All of the participants reflected on the sense of validation that having sex with a non-trans man could provide. Many suggested that this was particularly powerful for trans men in their early years of transition and that being sexual with a gay non-trans man could feel like the “ultimate affirmation” of one’s manhood. This led many participants to ponder the risks that they, and other trans men, were willing to take to receive this sense of affirmation.” The risk-taking doesn’t resonate with me because I’m not willing to have unsafe sex (or even have safe sex with people I’m not attracted to), but many of the participants’ quotes are spot-on. It’s a very good read and it’s gotten me interested in sexual health among queer trans men (possibly something to work on this year?). I wish us all a great 2013, with love, strength and energy to tackle our dreams. Body Celebration Dating Personal progress dating gay sexuality Gay affirmations This site has a very long list of terms related to gender, sex, orientation, personality, etc; you can choose all the words you identify with and create a presentation badge:     Hello My name is   genderkid   My gender identity is   activist, ambiguous, ask me, blessed, both, boy, boy lover, butch-liking, complex, curious, FTM, FTX, fagdyke, friend, full of love, gay-friendly, gender euphoric, gender expressive, gender liberationist, gender transcender, gender warrior, genderfuck, genderqueer, gentleman, guy, happy, lesbro, Mr., open, philosopher, queer, queer liberationist, queer-friendly, queer-minded, queergendered, simple, sir, trans, transboy, transfag, transgender, transgender warrior, transguy, transkid, transmale, transman, transmasculine, transperson, transtheorist   What’s yours    “There are exactly 925 options here, and a total of  2.8363×10278 or 283 unnovemgintillion possible combinations, more than there are elementary particles in the universe. If each option were a computer bit, it would take 116 bytes to encode a combination.” Wow. And this is just a small selection of all the possible ways we can identify; I identify as “non-binary”, for instance, and I bet you can think of other gender words that represent you. Plus, there are hundreds of cultures with words and genders that don’t exactly translate as “man” or “woman”, so there’s an infinite number of ways to define ourselves. Too bad most people only identifies as one of the culturally-sanctioned genders. This site made me think about how our gender identity blends with the rest of our identity. I wondered why there were checkboxes for things like personality and political affiliation; but then orientation/affection isn’t strictly about gender either, and I tend to lump them together, saying I’m a queer transboy (the “queer” part is important to me: it defines my non-binary mindset). I guess the author thinks of us as whole human beings who can’t be split into different categories so easily: “Although I really wanted the words to stand for themselves, without tainting them by splitting them up, with 925 options that’s not really plausible. So I have categorized them into groups. Like any other classification system, this is completely arbitrary. You can still view one long list if you like…” Hat-tip to Meitar Moscovitz, who commented about this site on Genderfork. Thanks, Meitar! Genderqueer Genders in everyday life Links Words and terms gender genders identities identity link orientation transgender What’s your gender? Many trans and genderqueer bloggers have mentioned being asked “are you a boy or a girl,” sometimes by complete strangers. I’ve only been asked that question twice, and both times the inquirer was a very young child. However, I have noticed people asking each other about my sex –they probably only cared about my sex, and not my gender identity– as if I couldn’t hear them. Or maybe they didn’t even care whether I heard or not; maybe my gender ambiguity made me subhuman enough that my feelings didn’t matter anymore. I wonder if it’s a cultural thing; I think most of the people who were asked to their face were from the US, or at least from English-speaking countries (of course, it wouldn’t be accurate to draw conclusions from only a few examples). I think it’s easier when people attack you directly: I’ve managed to handle that in the past. But hearing people discuss my sex always leaves me feeling upset and downtrodden. I’ve never had the courage to stand up for myself. I can usually think up some responses, but only after the situation is past. I’d like to say something along the lines of: “It’s a boy, and he has ears, you know. So knock it off.” or, “Whatever I am, I’m a human being; so please stop talking as if I couldn’t hear you.” Now I’m perceived as male all the time, so I haven’t had to go through this in a while. But school has already started and I’m going to have to use the locker rooms soon; probably the women’s room, since so many guys in the men’s room would know me. So I’ve prepared something to say to any girls who try to kick me out because they haven’t met me: “You’re first year students, aren’t you? Well, I’ve been using this room for over four years now, so. Oh, and welcome to our school.” It’s polite, but it establishes my relative authority on locker room use. And I don’t apologize for my presence: I won’t let myself feel inferior any longer. No one can make me feel inferior without my consent. PS: After hitting Publish, I realized that I might be a jerk for invading women’s space. Not allowing myself to feel inferior doesn’t mean I can steamroll girls’ right to their private locker room (I don’t believe in gender-segregated restrooms, but I do have to abide by existing rules). I really don’t want to be an a-hole towards women; that was my biggest fear when I decided to transition. That said, I have a right to change my clothes somewhere, too; and lots of girls wouldn’t mind because they already know me. I think there isn’t a clear-cut answer to whose rights should prevail in this situation. What do you think: how can I respect the girls and manage to change my clothes? Genderqueer Genders in everyday life ambiguity androgynous androgyny are you a boy or a girl boy FTM gender girl locker room rude School transboy transgender Answering “is that a boy or a girl?” I’ve been piling up some great links for weeks; here they are. Gender Outlaw started the Transman Mapping Project (a great idea!): The idea is simple: just add your name or alias (it can be anonymous) and a marker to the map so that we can create a bird’s eye view of how transmen are spread out around the world. If you’ve ever had that feeling of being alone in your transition, a quick look at the map will show you otherwise. We really are everywhere! -Gender Outlaw I’ve been looking through Scarleteen (“sex ed for the real world”) and I found a great article called “GenderPalooza! A Sex & Gender Primer”. I love how it invites cisgender people to defy gender norms. It also has an awesome section called “How to Be Transfriendly and Subvert Crummy Gender Roles at the Same Time, in Five Easy Steps!”: 3) Nix staring and whispering. When someone looks or acts in a way which you think is incongruent to their sex or gender, check yourself out. Think about WHY you think that way, where those ideas come from, and if it’s reasonable or positive… Genderfork featured a video of S. Bear Bergman reading from hir book, Butch Is a Noun. It made me laugh: Bergman tries to define butch, but has to add a lot of caveats and exceptions that show how slippery genders really are. And Below the Belt featured one of my posts yesterday. I feel honored! Links below the belt blogs butch is a noun gender gender norms genderpalooza map mapping project Queer s. bear bergman scarleteen sex ed trans friendly transgender transman transmen world A Few Links I’ve read all sorts of answers to this question. From “I suddenly started feeling an inexplicable rage” to “I feel peace for the first time in my life.” I hadn’t really thought about this until I listened to this radio show about testosterone, which includes an interview with a transman. One phrase stuck in my mind: “It’s like something in me giving me instructions I probably shouldn’t follow.” I’m not so worried about the impulses T would bring; after all, part of being a human is controlling those impulses. I’m more concerned about the feelings that T might erase. The guy on the radio show, for instance, mentioned he couldn’t cry as easily, even if he wanted to. I’ve heard that testosterone makes it easier to control emotions, which could be a good thing (although that contradicts some sources, which mention an uncontrollable libido and anger). But sometimes I like feeling strong emotions. I like the goosebumps down my spine when I read something extraordinarily heartwarming, and the electricity that rushes through my body during a particularly good movie. Overall, I’m not too preoccupied of the effects testosterone might have on my personality, although I would love if it gave me an energy boost (that’s a possible consequence). It is a factor to consider before starting T, but I don’t think any possible negative effects outweigh the certain positive physical effects I’ll experience. Besides, I can always stop my injections if necessary. Right now, I’m more worried about the implications on the gender system if T really does change your personality: would that make gender stereotypes at least partially true? Hudson’s FtM Guide is probably right: “Testosterone is only one factor in transition, and not everyone responds to it in the same way. This is not to deny that testosterone can and does have significant effects on the moods and feelings of some trans guys, but rather to point out that many factors play into a person’s behaviors. You can meet ten different trans people on the exact same dosing schedule of testosterone, and they may have ten different transition experiences!” PS: Tboy Jacky just posted about this issue; his experience is really illuminating, especially concerning aggressiveness and sex drive. And guess what? “I’ve always been easily moved by various art forms and that has not changed.” There goes my largest concern about the emotional consequences of T! Hooray! Personal progress Theorizing brain emotions feelings hormones impulses masculinity personality T testosterone transboy transgender transition transman How does T mess with your mind? I used to be critical of women who wanted bigger breasts. I felt they were superficial and I mentally accused them of buying into the media’s beauty standards. Then I became aware of my own breasts and discovered the possibility of FtM top surgery; and I think I finally understood. When I started binding, I was ecstatic about my new appearance; but whenever I became conscious of the bandages against my chest, I’d feel sick to the stomach: I thought that, as long as I had those things, I wasn’t a real boy. At best, I was a deformed male; at worst, I was a monster. As I became more comfortable with my transmale identity –and my transmale body– I started seeing myself in a different light. I can now look at my bare torso in the mirror and I see a boy, even though I still don’t like my chest. I think this newfound comfort is related to my internalization of the idea that genders and sexes are constructed. Lots of men have boobs, whether they’re trans or cis. I started paying attention to the men I cross every day: some guys’ breasts are almost as big as mine. Maybe the reason I don’t like my tits is that the ideal men portrayed in the media –TV, magazines, even biology textbooks– have flat chests, just like most women who are shown as “pretty” have big boobs. If that’s true, then I shouldn’t blame myself or people who want boob jobs for disliking our breasts: we’re just on the bad end of societal expectations. (And I shouldn’t be critical of anyone’s feelings, anyway; that’s kind of mean.) We can challenge those expectations, but they still deeply affect us. Thinking all of this doesn’t make me like my breasts any more, though. I can tolerate them, at least for now, which is definitely better than hating them; but if chest reconstruction would make me happier and more comfortable in my body, then I hope I’m able to have it someday. The personal may be political, but at some point taking care of myself becomes more important than challenging the gender binary. Activism, Politics and Mass Media Genders in everyday life Personal progress Theorizing binding breasts chest chest reconstruction chest surgery expectations ideal man men self self-esteem society top surgery transboy transgender transman Man-breasts and boob jobs I know two transboys who have “exotic” legal (girl) names, so people just assume they’re boys with uncommon names. I don’t want to mention their actual names, but take the name Andrea: it’s mostly used for women, but in Italy it’s a boy name. I know a cisgender guy named Andrea. My legal name isn’t that versatile: it’s kind of like Emily or Sarah, Juana or Daniela. I wonder if people would still believe me if I told them it’s a rare boy name. I don’t mean to keep my old name, but it’s still on my ID and on teachers’ lists at school; I’d like to avoid being outed all the time. Some people even think I’m lying when I say that it’s me; I can’t always “pass” as female anymore. I’ve been thinking about this because school is starting soon, and I don’t know how I’ll handle my new teachers. I guess they’ll think I’m a boy until they learn my name; then they’ll probably think I’m an over-the-top bulldyke. It would be so easy to make them perceive me as male: my name is the only obstacle. I’ve been seriously thinking about pretending I have an unconventional boy name. If I’m really confident, I might be able to pull it off… Or is this plan just too wacky? One person told me it’ll probably backfire, another told me teachers don’t really care. But I’m not worried about teachers getting all homophobic with me: I’m just sick of female pronouns. Maybe the simple solution would be to talk sincerely with each teacher. But that’s too scary; I’d be seriously exposing myself to transphobia. Maybe I can stand being called “she,” after all. I only have one year of secondary school to tolerate; I don’t want to get into trouble unnecessarily. Genders in everyday life Names high school name School secondary school teachers teen teenage teenaged teenager trans transboy transgender Boys with girly names I’m amazed at how this blog grew from a personal reflection diary to one of those blogs that some people actually read. Thanks for stopping by, all of you! And thanks if you ever commented; I appreciate your taking a minute to share your thoughts. I try not to post too often to avoid annoying you, so I have a long line of drafts and post ideas scrawled over two notepads and a few computer folders. And school’s starting soon, so I’m going to be busier; but I’ll have lots to blog about: many people found out I was trans over the summer, so I wonder what name and pronouns they’ll use. And I’m going to start going to the men’s room full-time. I still don’t know what I’m going to do with the locker rooms, though. Some posts I’m working on: Man-breasts and boob jobs — Identities in history — Family — Pieces of gender Personal progress blog blogging boy FTM post School teen teenage teenager trans transboy transgender Post number 50 I’m back! Here’s a short, light post while I gather my thoughts. I wonder how pets deal with transition. Taking hormones is like going through puberty, so they should keep recognizing the transitioning person if ze stayed at home, gradually changing. But what if I manage to move out when I start T, and I only visit occasionally? Will my dog still know who I am? Plus, getting hir used to my new name would be tough. How did you all deal with your pets? PS: if you’re near Hampshire College in Amherst, MA (US), in April, you might be interested in a conference that Helyx is working on: “Want to explore the intersection of queer identity, reproductive justice, sexuality and gender?” More info here. Genders in everyday life Names dog dogs female to male FTM pet pets trans transboy transexual transgender transition transmale transman transsexual Pets More trans spoken word! Kit Yan slams about gender, race and food in a style that can go from funny to poignant and every emotion in between. He’s part of Good Asian Drivers, “a music and spoken word duo that only pretends to gig and mostly uses touring as an excuse to eat random foods. [link]“ You can hear some of his pieces at his site, and also read his poetry and lyrics. Oh, and watch Good Asian Drivers perform here and here.   …there may be as many as a million genders, identities, and sexualities, just floating around, searching for the right person, to snatch them up, put them on, and proudly parade around in their new skin, unrestricted by layers and identity, and limitations of culture, society, and social construction. this new gender is a function of inner desire, and genuine understanding of self to be lived… —Written and performed by Kit Yan © 2005.  One of my favorites is Tranny Shack, which talks about transpeople and a day in the life of a transman:  welcome to the tranny shack we got cross dressing, gender-bending, make-up, strap-ons, pom-poms and cargo pants, heels, slacks, baseball caps, tattoos, piercings, bikini strings, and hiking gear, stolen back from queers for queers see, we’re here to erase the gender lines put the boundaries of sex behind us and well, look good doing it… —All poems written by Kit Yan © 2008.  I’ll leave you with Queer Nation, a piece about the gender and racial issues still haunting the queer community. Melissa Li accompanies beautifully with her guitar. Links Spoken Word, Music, Arts Good Asian Drivers Kit Yan Melissa Li poem poetry Queer Nation slam slam poem slam poetry talking Third Gender Tranny Shack transgender Kit Yan from Good Asian Drivers I never liked buying clothes. Before questioning my gender, I had a hard time finding girl’s clothes I liked, but I couldn’t even conceive the notion of buying in the men’s section (I had the binary well internalized). I kept looking for my own girl “style”, hoping to find something I felt comfortable wearing; altough being so picky made me feel superficial. When I started identifying as trans, I realized that I couldn’t find my girl-style because I didn’t feel like a girl in the first place. I became suddenly aware of all the oh-so-comfortable, oh-so-me men’s clothes available — if I dared to buy it against my mother’s wishes. When I finally plucked up the courage to go into a men’s store, I found an obstacle I hadn’t thought of: men’s clothes come in men’s sizes. I am only boy-sized, and thin to boot. I now know a couple of stores that sell extra-small T-shirts, and I can wear small shirts if necessary. Switching to boy shirts made me feel so much better. I could finally look at myself in mirrors without feeling my stomach twist. Pants were a tougher issue. I have female-wide hips, but men’s pants are simply humongous on me. After months of wearing boy shirts, I still couldn’t find boy pants in my size. I went into store after store, feeling more and more frustrated, asking the store clerks for their smallest size. They were really nice; they tried to find something my size, and you could tell they didn’t want to send me to a kids’ store. I couldn’t bring myself to go to a children’s shop: all of them have toddler-sized things in their windows. Why are there stores for teenage girls, but not for teenage boys? I mean, even boys need clothes when they aren’t kids anymore, but haven’t grown much either! I ended up buying a huge pair of jeans out of desperation. They didn’t look too good on my thin legs, but I had to get out of my girl-fitting pants. I didn’t think I’d ever find anything my size — even T can’t do miracles (actually, T might make things worse, since it’ll melt my hip fat away!) But, recently, a store clerk offered me a pair of extra-snug-fitting pants. And they fit! Maybe I wasn’t condemned to a no-pants life, after all. I had gotten really dramatic about the whole affair: I honestly thought there were no adult pants in my size. Now, I’m more optimistic: it might be harder to find clothes my size, but it isn’t impossible. PS: Hudson’s FTM Guide includes a section on finding clothes for short and small guys. Genders in everyday life Personal progress clothes FTM men's pants shirts trans transboy transgender transman The Odyssey of Finding Pants When I wrote my last post I was feeling really down, but during the past few months I’ve been feeling much better so I owe you an update. The last you heard of me, I was all “oh noez, no man will ever love me!”, even though a number of people kept telling me that there are cisgender gay men who date trans guys. I had a hard time believing it, despite the fact that several gay men had hit on me in the past — men who knew about my history. I was just stuck in a pessimistic mindset. Out of curiosity, I posted a profile on a gay personals site, stating very clearly that I’d transitioned from female to male, and you know what? I got dozens of positive responses within days! I was astounded. I ended up leaving the site because I couldn’t get used to the anonymity (and the level of explicitness) but it was a huge confidence boost. At the same time I began to get busy with a few projects I’m passionate about so I managed to pull myself out of the rut. Since then I’ve been flirting with several guys, both in person and on facebook, and I’ve been on a couple of dates. I’m still figuring out how and when to disclose my trans status, though: the guys I met in person had known up front, but I’ve been chatting with some men who don’t know and I’m curious to see how they’ll react. I think my self-esteem can handle the rejection now. So I’ve finally learned what people have been telling me all along: the gay community isn’t particularly closed to trans men. It’s far from being a haven of body positivity (lord help you if you’re fat, old, or have dark skin) but I haven’t felt as excluded as I thought. I just stick to the most feminist and activist-y spaces within the community. I hope everyone is ending their year on a positive note, too! Celebration Personal progress dating flirting gay On a more positive note I never made a huge effort to change my voice. I have experimented with lowering my tone at home, speaking into a microphone; but when I actually talk with someone, I’d rather let the conversation flow naturally. I prefer to concentrate on what I say instead of how squeaky I sound, even if that entails being seen as female. Maybe, if my voice were the only thing in the way of “passing”, I’d pay more attention to it. As it is, I’m usually seen as male anyway, unless the other person already knows me well. Or maybe I just don’t care so much; maybe I care more about establishing a connection with the person I’m talking to, a connection that goes beyond how I’m gendered. As Clare Howell wrote in GenderQueer, “…I make little effort to present either a feminine or masculine appearance. I lived half a lifetime creating the caricature of a man and have no interest in spending the other half doing ‘woman’.”* That doesn’t mean I like my voice; I remember being horrified when I first heard a recording of myself in the 6th grade. It’ll be awesome to hear it change when I’m on testosterone. Maybe I’m just lazy; but for now, other things seem more important than getting a lower voice. * “Caricature” doesn’t seem the best term for modifying one’s presentation; I guess she means “trying too hard to pass by pretending to be someone you’re not.” I don’t think a transwoman would want to ridicule transpeople! PS: Vancouver Coastal Health’s guide to changing speech for transpeople. Genders in everyday life deeper FTM lower speaking talking transboy transgender transman vocal voice Voice The Athens Boys Choir isn’t a choir at all – it’s Harvey Katz, a trans spoken-word / hip-hop performer. I love his work since I heard Mourner’s Prayer, an intense poem about transition, spirituality and family. Later I discovered that he has many funny pieces, too, like Fagette and Tranny Got Pack (“I like to pack and I cannot lie!”). I think you’ll enjoy his work, too:  (lyrics for Fagette here) Mourner’s Prayer, in particular, keeps drawing me to hear it again. The Hebrew chants interspersed throughout the poem haunt me -in a nice way- even though I’m agnostic. Katz said: “In it, I realized that there was a moment where I started to love myself. And I know that seems so loo-loo and New Age. But at the same time, it’s a revolutionary thought to have when you’ve spent your whole life not loving yourself. That changed me and how I write.”  I couldn’t find any lyrics for this; my transcription, after the jump. Mourner’s Prayer by Harvey Katz  Across the bridge, there are a million lights and night rider I’m driving, New York City on my right. Steering wheel in my hand, journal tight to my thigh and that seventy-miles-an-hour highway line’s hypnotized. And meditative thoughts materialize where I’m chugging along the interstates, paraded by inquisitive nouns looking cock-eyed and inquisitive towns and wonder what this countrified city boy hides. And this time, it’s Raleigh to DC, New York and Philly; a love-seat on Monday; a pull-out couch on Tuesday. And on days this gray, I fold into myself like clovers after dusk; and on days this cold, I wonder what the road holds. I could beat a concept of home and I say the mourner’s prayer almost without thinking: Yisgadal v’yiskadash sh’mei rabbaw. Yes, I do believe in God; and no, this isn’t Columbine, I’m not answering with my life on the line but when a student asked me this question, “do you believe in God?,” after an hour-long Trans 101 lesson, she was looking for a life line. ‘Cause her whole lifetime, she believed in water into wine, dying for your sins and walking on liquid; and here I was, taking Adam’s rib and turning it into something she had to question. Yisgadal v’yiskadash sh’mei rabbaw. Your (Hebrew). The loss of a daughter without gaining a son; and like “wouldn’t it just, like, be easier if you just sort of, like, picked one?” For you? Well, probably; but for me, it’s all speculatory; for my family, yes. See, yesterday, I cut off the last parts of me recognizable in my mother’s silhouette; a pound and a half of flesh, and tomorrow yesterday’s trash; and I’m a little bit regret, and a little bit happiness. Witness self-hate. Witness mutation. Witness my father’s even breath breaking into hysteria and negotiation. Witness, witness awakening. See, I went to sleep proud and woke up feeling like a sell-out, like I’m fucking the binary, like I’m putting out for a system that would put up with me. Like now, I’m part of this silent hierarchy settled for those who have transitioned medically. And really, well, that’s not how I feel at all, so I’m calling on this community to commute; to move past passing judgement ’cause it was twenty-six years before I saw anything beautiful in me. Twenty-six years, each with 365 days, and between, nearly ten thousand dawns of dysphoria; of waking under waterfalls, waiting to be washed clean, or carried off. And we are eighty percent water: fluidity seems only natural to change state into birthright. Isn’t that what we’re taught? That energy is neither gain nor loss; from lava to mountain; from fire to rock… Yisgadal v’yiskadash sh’mei rabbaw. Sit out parts in the highway; where exits grow so far apart that what is conceptually just a little ways to go becomes fifty miles of road between you and your goal. Yisgadal v’yiskadash sh’mei rabbaw. It is a conversational prayer: the service leader says one thing and the congregation answers: v’yispaw’ar, v’yisromam, v’yis’nasei. It’s a dialogue for a pair; patchwork on asphalt; tar snakes are making peace. See, across the bridge, there are a million lights and night rider I’m driving, hoping instinct brings me to insight. Humor Links Spoken Word, Music, Arts Arts athens boys choir fagette harvey katz hip-hop katz mourner's prayer music poem poetry slam poetry Spoken Word tranny got pack transgender video Athens Boys Choir: Trans Spoken Word I’ve heard a few transmasculine and genderqueer people say they’re uncomfortable with the term FtM because it seems to imply a beginning and an end — you start in the female box, and end in the male box. So many boxes. I prefer to see FtM as a neverending arrow: firmly rooted in a female past, pointing in the general direction of “male”, but never quite meaning to reach it. In Sanscrit, ti means “arrow”. It also means “life”. I marvel at how adaptable words like “FtM” are; I wonder how many different, colorful interpretations it might hold. Celebration Genderqueer Words and terms arrow box boxes female femininity FTM gender identity male masculinity transgender transmasculinity Does FtM imply an end point? I used to identify as a lesbian. A die-hard, no-man-will-ever-touch-me dyke. However, when I started seeing myself as a boy, my attractions shifted: I began seeing the beauty in male bodies, and now I hardly even look at women. At first, I thought it might be confusion; maybe I didn’t desire a male body for my partner, but for myself (the do-be-do-be-do complex!). I don’t think that’s likely, though. I can totally picture myself going out with a man now that I’m a transman myself. Back when I identified as a lesbian, I couldn’t have pictured that. I could not see myself, as a woman, going out with a man. Now… ohh darn, men are gorgeous. I can see myself going out with people of any sex or gender identification. I’m most attracted to people whose gender lies between androgynous and masculine, but within that, I think I’d be willing to date men, women, genderqueers or others; and I could be attracted to a femme person, eventually. Does that mean I’m bisexual? I don’t like that word; it implies that there are only two sexes; or maybe two genders? In any case, there are way more than two. I prefer “queer”. Even if I turn out to be only attracted to men, I’d prefer queer over “gay” or “fag” or the even more inaccurate “homosexual” because I don’t identify completely with the gender binary (transfag would work, though). S. Bear Bergman put it best:  At the base, the current terms of sexual orientation that the language offers (hetero, homo, bi) are problematic because they rely on a bipolar gendered system that is coming apart at the seams even as we fuck. In order to identify myself as a heterosexual, I first have to be able to identify in some sort of concrete way what my own gender is, and then decide whether it has an opposite, which still does not, in the strictest sense, fulfill the definition of heterosexual because hetero isn’t Greek for “opposite,” it’s Greek for “other”. So as long as I’m attracted to people of a different gender than I am, I am heterosexual, except that in this language that’s really just one other and also I might be attracted to someone who is the same sex but a different gender, and so I as a butch could therefore be attracted to femmes and call myself heterosexual under that definition (…).   Queer doesn’t assume any gender, or any sexual behavior, only a certain disregard for social norms regarding gendered and sexual behavior. That’s a sexual orientation that may wear better, whatever changes the next hundred years may bring. Personal progress Theorizing Words and terms attraction bisexual gay identification identity Lesbian Queer s. bear bergman sexual orientation sexuality terms trans transgender My queer identity Here’s a spoken word poem by Adriel Luis. It’ about how gender –femininity– is constructed and imposed on women (specifically, non-white females in the US): “…makeup’s just an anglicized, colonized, commodified utility that my sisters have been programmed to consume, forcing them to cover up their natural state in order to imitate what another sister looks like in her natural state because people keep telling her that the other sister’s natural state is more beautiful than the first sister’s natural state. At the same time, the other sister isn’t even in her natural state, because she’s trying to imitate yet another sister, so in actuality, the natural state that the first sister’s trying to imitate wasn’t even natural in the first place.” This reminds me of queer theory and how genders can be thought of as copies; copies with no original. It’s also interesting to hear the feelings of the guy who’s hitting on her: “…in the presence of this higher being, the weakness of my masculinity kicks in, causing me to personify my wannabe big-baller, shot-caller, God’s gift to the female species…”  Transcription, found here, after the cut. Slip of the Tongue by Adriel Luis My glares burn through her. And I’m sure that such actions aren’t foreign to her because the essence of her beauty is, well, the essence of beauty. And in the presence of this higher being, the weakness of my masculinity kicks in, causing me to personify my wannabe big-baller, shot-caller, God’s gift to the female species with shiny suit wrapping rapping like, “Yo, what’s crackin shorty how you livin’ what’s your sign what’s your size I dig your style, yo.” Now, this girl was no fool. She gives me a dirty look with the quickness like, “Boy, you must be stupid.” so I’m looking at myself, “Boy, you must be stupid.” But looking upon her I am kinda feelin’ her style. So I try again. But, instead of addressing her properly, I blurt out one of my fake-ass playalistic lines like, “Gurl, you must be a traffic ticket cuz you got fine written all over you.” Now, she’s trying to leave and I’m trying to keep her here. So at a final attempt, I utter, “Gurl, what is your ethnic makeup?” At this point, her glare was scorching through me, and somehow she manages to make her brown eyes resemble some kinda brown fire or something, but there’s no snap or head moement, no palm to face, click of tongue, middle finger, roll of eyes, twist of lips, or girl power chant. She just glares through me with these burning eyes and her gaze grabs you by the throat. She says, “Ethnic makeup?” She says, “First of all, makeup’s just an anglicized, colonized, commodified utility that my sisters have been programmed to consume, forcing them to cover up their natural state in order to imitate what another sister looks like in her natural state because people keep telling her that the other sister’s natural state is more beautiful than the first sister’s natural state. At the same time, the other sister isn’t even in her natural state, because she’s trying to imitate yet another sister, so in actuality, the natural state that the first sister’s trying to imitate wasn’t even natural in the first place.” Now I’m thinking, “Damn, this girl’s kicking knowledge!” But, meanwhile, she keeps spitting on it like “Fine. I’ll tell you bout my ‘ethnic makeup.’ I wear foundation, not that powdery shit, I wear the foundation laid by my indigenous people. It’s that foundation that makes it so that past being globalized, I can still vocalize with confidence that i know where my roots are. I wear this foundation not upon my face, but within my soul, and I take this from my ancestors because I’ll be damned if I’d ever let an American or European corporation tell me what my foundation should look like.” I wear lipstick, for my lips stick to the ears of men, so they can experience in surround sound my screams of agony with each lash of rulers, measuring tape, and scales, as if my waistline and weight are inversely propotional to my value as a human being. See my lips, they stick, but not together. Rather, they flail open with flames to burn down this culture that once kept them shut. Now, I mess with eye shadow, but my eyes shadow over this time where you’ve gone at ends to keep me blind. But you can’t cover my eyes, look into them. My eyes foreshadow change. My eyes foreshadow light. and I’m not into hair dyeing. but I’m here, dying, because this oppression won’t get out of my hair. I have these highlights. They are highlights of my past atrocities, they form this oppression I can’t wash off. It tangles around my mind and twists and braids me in layers, this oppression manifests, it’s stressing me so that even though I don’t color my hair, in a couple of years it’ll look like I dyed it gray. So what’s my ethnic makeup ? I don’t have any. Because your ethnicity isn’t something you can just make up. And as for that crap my sisters paint on their faces, that’s not makeup, it’s make-believe.” I can’t seem to look up at her. and I’m sure that such actions aren’t foreign to her because the expression on her face shows that she knows that my mind is in a trance. As her footsteps fade, my ego is left in crutches. And rejection never sounded so sweet. —————————————————————– * “For Butler, ‘successful’ genders are those that cite other earlier examples. Thus we learn to become men and women and to be recognized as such by copying other examples. (…) if gender is always an artifice that copies something else, then all gender is a reuse of familiar stereotypes (…). All gender is drag.” — Wilchins, Riki. Genderqueer: Voices from beyond the sexual binary.” Activism, Politics and Mass Media Links Spoken Word, Music, Arts Theorizing beauty construction femininity gender masculinity poem queer theory slam poetry video Slip of the tongue At first, I resisted getting a Facebook account — I was happy enough without it, thank you very much. But I ended up getting one last year, while I was still thinking gender-confused. So now I’m trying to transition my profile over to male while facing the “out or not” dilemma. The actual female-to-male profile transition was easy. Luckily, I had signed up with my gender-neutral nickname; I changed it to my chosen name. I didn’t have too many photos, either; a friend helped me purge the older, more female-looking ones. I had never marked my sex as “male” or “female”, and I left it that way, because I think it’s annoying that they ask, especially if they only give me two options. Plus, my sex is none of their business. The hardest part is deciding whether I want to be out as trans on my Facebook or not. I don’t actually state “I’m trans!” anywhere, but I am part of many trans groups, and I have my gender blogs on my profile because I’m proud of them. Plus, there are lots of tiny details: a friend signed one of my pictures “haha, look at her”. I didn’t think I minded being out; but I’ve been meeting new people and I don’t necessarily want them to know I’m trans when we’ve just met. When people find out, they start treating me a little different; not unkindly, but as if they were seeing me differently: seeing me as a girl. It’s the old question of when/how/if to come out, but instead of deciding in each individual situation, you have to decide once, for everyone you’ll meet. And the newspaper keeps running articles on how important social networks are for getting jobs. Right now, most (all?) people in my life know I was assigned female at birth, and I’m planning to do trans activism anyway, so it isn’t worth it to hide my past. I think I’ll probably open up a new Facebook account before starting college, which is when I plan to start T. It’ll be a fresh start. Genders in everyday life Personal progress coming facebook female to male FTM out social network social networking stealth trans transgender transition Transitioning on Facebook, and being out During my childhood, everyone thought I was a straight girl. When I turned 15, I started identifying as a lesbian; most people still believed I was straight unless I was out to them. A year later I started dressing more boyishly, and I was pretty visibly gay. People who know as a girl still assume I’m a lesbian. Now, most people take me for a cisgender boy when we meet. If we meet in an LGBTQ context, they think I’m a gay male; in straight spaces, I don’t know what sexuality I look like. But whenever people learn I’m trans, they immediately assume I’m heterosexual. I think it’s funny to be percieved as all sorts of things by different people. It can be exasperating at times: if queer men think I’m straight, I won’t have a chance with them. And it’s weird to discover how heterosexist LGBT people can be. But I guess it’s understandable: after all, I did identify proudly as a lesbian in the past. Genders in everyday life Humor assuming assumptions Dyke gay guessing heterosexism heterosexist heterosexual identity Lesbian sexual orientation sexuality straight transgender Assumptions When I started this blog, I was in the middle of an identity crisis: “…in any given day I’ve gone through identifying as genderqueer to ftm to butch dyke.” Now, I’m pretty stable in my transmasculine identity. So, how would I define my gender? I identify as a transboy/transman, or as a genderqueer guy, or as a genderqueer transguy. I no longer feel purely genderqueer, totally outside of the the male/female binary; I still reject the binary, but I identify with male pronouns, names and words (man, boy, guy; niño, muchacho, chico, varón, hombre). However, I feel it’s important to add the word “trans” or “genderqueer” to those male words. I’ve been thinking about this for a while. At first, I wanted to differentiate myself from cisgender men because I wanted to have a totally different, self-constructed masculinity. Then I realized that there are all kinds of cis men: there is a hegemonic masculinity, but there are infinite others as well. So the “trans” or “genderqueer” part of my identity is there to mark the consciousness of my gender. I am male-identified, but that’s a choice that I renew each and every day. It’s kind of like femme identity: a femme woman is a feminine woman, but she picked that femininity consciously, not because she was pressured by society. I’ll have to be careful not to fall into certain default patterns of behaviour “just because that’s what men do.” Personal progress Theorizing binary conscious consciousness femme FTM gender Genderqueer identity trans transboy transgender transman My identity: Gender A couple of noteworthy links: I’ve been sending stuff I found to Sociological Images –articles, images, videos–, and they published some of it, adding their analysis: Women as Tools of Economic Development, On Being Genderqueer, Gender-Ambiguous People as Incomplete, the new Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, and One Laptop Per Child. “No Dumb Questions” is a place for trans people & friends to tell their own story: “By sharing our stories we can change hearts and minds from fear and bias to understanding and love.” The idea sounded nice to me, at first, but then I started thinking: are these stories supposed to represent the “trans experience”? I don’t think there even is one “trans experience.” I started thinking about these issues after seeing the trailer for Against a Trans Narrative (via Malcolm), which expresses concerns about the visibility of “the trans experience;” for instance, you’re supposed to tell a certain story to acheive access to hormones. I think no one should claim to speak for the whole community, but if each of us speaks for ourselves, we’ll end up showing a great diversity of trans experiences. Maybe the solution to misrepresentation, then, would be for all of us to tell our stories. What do you think? Activism, Politics and Mass Media Links blogs no dumb questions representation sociological images trans experience trans narrative Sociological Images and Trans Narratives An Argentinean racing magazine, Corsa, just published an issue with a “pregnant man” on the cover. He’s a racer called Marcos Di Palma, “el Loco” (the crazy man); here’s another picture of him wearing this fake belly. Why did he do this? Translated, he said that “These pictures are, in some way, a homage to my fans, because being a fan of mine is like going into labor. And with all the taunting, they suffer more than if they were pregnant.” Is it just me, or is that totally senseless? If these pictures are intended to raise a controversy for publicity, it’s working: several newspapers featured the story. If pregnant men and transmen were considered “normal”, this wouldn’t grab our attention; but apparently, they/we are still a curiosity. Activism, Politics and Mass Media cisgender man Corsa marcos di palma parody pregnant man trans in media transgender Parody of Thomas Beatie? 