 Jamie, demonstrating outside Trump’s hotel. After writing once a week for four years. I’ve finally decided is time to switch things up and stop posting on schedule and only post when I feel like it. I like blogging. I like the community and the intimacy. I like reading about other people’s lives, especially people who are trying to figure out how to live authentically without blowing the rest of their lives to smithereens. But blogging takes a lot of time, and at this moment in history I want to focus on political activism and building community. I don’t want to resent how much time I’m spending writing. Four years ago, when I started this blog, I had just legally changed my name and accepted that I was trans. I was struggling to hold onto my relationship with Donna. I had read enough books to practically get a master’s degree in queer and transgender studies, but I couldn’t figure out what I wanted to do about my gender identity and gender expression. I set it up as a false dichotomy; stay butch or transition to trans man. It took me a while to see that although I always wanted to be a boy, I didn’t necessarily want to be a man. That there was a lot of space, and a lot of room for experimentation, in between butch and trans man. I am still exploring that space. I haven’t run out of ideas for blog posts. Today, I was thinking about letting go of the self-imposed pressure to decide about testosterone (not making a decision is still making a decision) and my fear that not going on testosterone means that I’m not really trans. Another post I want to write is about setting high expectations for myself and dealing with my disappointment when I can’t live up to them. I also want to write about what it is like to do political work with LGBTQ folk I know from ACT UP 25 years ago (and anti-war work 15 years ago) and their difficulty accepting that I am in a different place now than I was then (including getting my name right!). Donna protesting outside Trump’s hotel. Donna and I are also working together this time, along with our friend Alexis. It is great to be protesting with friends. The political group we are working with is Rise & Resist. It is so new that the website isn’t up, and you don’t get anything when you Google it. The Facebook page for Rise & Resist is here. It isn’t an LGBTQ group, but there are a lot of LGBTQ activists in it (the B and the T part of the acronym have been pretty quiet). There are a handful of people who look like they are trans (I know, I shouldn’t judge based on how people look) and at least two other people who introduced themselves with they pronouns. I’m hoping to chat them up so we can support each other. It is hard to know what to do to fight Trump/Pence and the Republican agenda. It is easy to get frustrated and sink into despair. It is easy for us to turn on each other. I’ve been in groups that have self-imploded, and I’m hoping that Rise & Resist can work through those problems. Stay tuned.  Authenticity butch ftm genderqueer lgbt non-binary queer resistance rise and resist transgender Trump We Interrupt This Program  I thought I was mentally prepared for a Trump victory, but I was wrong. I knew the odds. I knew he had a chance. I’m glad he didn’t win by a landslide. I’m glad he didn’t win the popular vote. I can’t believe he won the election. I’m trying not to pin the blame on anyone. I don’t find comfort in saying if only Bernie Sanders had run, or if only James Comey hadn’t sent the letter about the emails on Anthony Weiner’s computer. I have a deep anger at everyone who voted for Trump, everyone who stayed home, and all the people who tell me “Don’t worry it won’t be as bad as you think.” I can’t gauge how bad it will be. It looks like all the worst aspects of American history wrapped up in one administration. I look at Pence, Giuliani, Bannon, and Gingrich and I think about the Comstock Laws, the Palmer Raids, Executive Order 9066, the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC), the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, COINTELPRO (FBI Counter Intelligence Program), and the Patriot Act. I think about the Justice Department ignoring burning crosses and lynchings, ignoring the police shooting at “rioters”, ignoring the murder of trans women. There is a good chance that Trump’s appointees will define being butch, queer, transgender, or gender non-conforming as “un-American”. Deviant. Degenerate. Perverted. It happened in Russia under Putin. It could happen here. I am expecting to hear a lot more right-wing Christian propaganda. I am ready to fight against FADA (First Amendment Defense Act). I studied American History in high school. The only criticism of the United States was when we studied about slavery and the Civil War (1865). I learned about WWII without hearing about the internment of the Japanese, the segregated Armed Forces, or the turning back of the St. Louis. My education was completely white-washed. I read on my own. I read about Hitler’s Enabling Act of 1933, and the 400 laws/decrees restricting Jewish public and private life. I’m not comparing Trump to Hitler, I’m trying to understand how demagogues turn into autocrats. I’m paying attention to the warning signs and to the propaganda. Most Jews I know, including myself, have wondered what they would have done in Berlin in 1933. When do you fight, when do you resist or refuse to cooperate, when do you go into hiding, when do you flee, where do you go, whom do you leave behind? I don’t know what I would have done. I’m concerned that I would have stayed and been part of the resistance. I don’t think I would have had the sense to leave early. I don’t like to give up. I’ve protested against every administration since Nixon’s second term in office (1972). I protested against Obama’s continuation of the war in Iraq, against my tax dollars being spent on the military instead of infrastructure, education, health care, and housing. I said before the election that I’d rather protest against Clinton than against Trump, but I’d be protesting either way. There is a lot that needs to be changed in this country. Trump will tell us that honest law-abiding citizens have nothing to fear; nothing bad will happen to us as long as we are not blatant. That we need to get rid of the bad guys, give his programs a chance, and accept that things are going to be different. I can not do that. I will non-violently resist the Trump/Pence administration and their policies, and I will not be silenced. Notes: I’ve reread Dr. Martin Luther King’s Letter from Birmingham Jail every day since the election to keep up my faith and to remind myself that this is an on going struggle. I also read Masha Gessen’s Autocracy: Rules for Survival, in The New York Review of Books. It should be required reading for everyone, no matter who they voted for, and especially for those who stayed home.  Authenticity butch election ftm genderqueer lgbt non-binary protest queer transgender Trump Getting Over The Shock  Taxis are required by law to take you anywhere in the five boroughs; but they do not like to go out of Manhattan unless you are going to the airport. Monday, the day I had top surgery, did not start off auspiciously. The car service called a half hour before the scheduled pick-up time to tell me they were running late. The car would arrive at my apartment after I was due at the hospital. We canceled the car and went down to Hudson St. and hailed a yellow taxi. The driver refused to take us to The Bronx. He claimed he didn’t know how to get there and his GPS was broken. We hailed another taxi. The driver punched the address into his phone and started driving. We arrived on time. I gave him a good tip. Montefiore Hospital’s day surgery unit is in a huge building with many corridors. We got lost. We wanted the silver zone and kept ending up in the purple zone. A security guard led us to the day surgery registration area. I signed in and got changed into my gown and waited for Dr. Weiss to come by for the final mark up. Yes, it was this kind of measuring tape; in centimeters. He arrived and apologized. He forgot to bring his measuring tape. He ran off to get another. I imagined him at the Dress Barn begging for a spare tape “Hurry up, I’ve got a patient on the table.” I have no idea where he found it, but, after what seemed like a long time, he reappeared with a new one. He looked at his notes, measured and marked and measured and marked. He stepped back, admired his work, and then we walked into the operating room.  My drains were not complex. . I woke up in the recovery room, bandaged and cold. I was not in pain; a little discomfort from the drains, some itching and chaffing from the bandages. Someone brought me coffee and graham crackers. Donna came in to see me. The nurse showed us how to empty the drains, and told me not to lift anything heavy. Then a sweet guy wheeled me down to the front door, where there was a line of taxis waiting to take us back to Manhattan. The bandages kept unravelling. The results were obscured by the packing, padding, and bandages. When the bandages slipped down I tried to move them back in place. I had a peek of what I finally recognized as my nipple. It looked high and outside. And small and dark. And not what I expected. I didn’t say anything to anyone, because I couldn’t see it properly. Perspective is everything. On Friday I saw Dr. Weiss. He took off the bandages and removed the drains. He told me I looked great. His instructions were to put gauze on the nipples, and wrap my chest loosely with an Ace bandage* and come back in a week. No binder, no compression. Don’t lift anything heavy. . Does this chest really belong to me? I didn’t get a good look at it until I got home and took my first post-surgery shower. It is strange to look at my “new” chest, because I always avoided looking at my old one. It is puffy, bruised, and a little uneven. There are two huge incisions across the front (duh). My nipples are in a different location than they were before; the left one has sensation. It is a masculine chest. A man’s chest, not a boy’s chest. A bit of a surprise. I was able to pull on my favorite black T-shirt. I like how I look in it. I’ve got pecs. My belly doesn’t stick out. My hips don’t look like they are made of neon. I look butch and fit. I am very, very, happy with it. Donna hasn’t seen me naked yet. I’m trying to be patient. She will look when she is ready. I hope she will like what she sees. Notes: *When I started binding, everything I read said to never, ever, bind using Ace bandages. Use a binder designed for binding. Dr. Weiss told me I’m not trying to compress, just to hold everything in place and protect it. At some point in the future I will write an uncharacteristically SEO friendly post on my top surgery experience; I don’t think enough time has elapsed to write a review yet and I’m still a little discombobulated from the surgery.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity body image butch Gender genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary queer top surgery transgender Transition Measure Twice, Cut Once  Even chimps have midlife crises. Mea culpa. I want to apologize to all the middle-aged people whom I mocked, behind their backs, for what they did during their midlife crisis. I rolled my eyes at the $60,000 kitchen renovation with a Sub Zero refrigerator and an integrated wine storage system. I snickered at the $45,000 red Cadillac sedan with French leather seats and a Bose sound system. I said “She should have had a brain implant instead of a boob job” in reference to a less than stellar co-worker who got a big cup. I take it all back. Somewhere out there someone I know is “tsk-tsking” me for having top surgery. It is payback. What I am doing fits the profile of a midlife crisis as much as taking skydiving lessons or buying a Harley-Davidson. Midlife can hit you hard. Particularly when you are set in your ways. Same job. Same partner. Same apartment. Same therapist. Same non-conforming butch gender stuff. And then boom, you look up and you are in uh-oh land. The land of possibilities that you did not let yourself think about every time you pulled on your Levi 501’s, buttoned your L.L. Bean flannel shirt, and laced up your Timberland boots. It isn’t exactly like I woke up one day and suddenly realized that I was an overweight and out of shape middle-aged butch lesbian with a stack of plaid flannel shirts and a pile of construction boots. But, after I corrected my therapist and told her “I’m not a girl”, I started the long process of figuring out exactly what that sentence meant. While I was thinking, I started going to Weight Watchers, ramping up my gym work outs, and binding my chest.  Those activities are at the top of the list of warning signs of a midlife crisis. Men try to lose weight, get in shape, and take up extreme sports. Women go to plastic surgeons (Botox, liposuction, or breast enhancements). I chose from both Column A and Column B. Maybe it is just the guys I know, but it seems like midlife crisis hits men harder and they spend more dealing with it. Besides the “best fucking Cadillac ever” I’ve watched guys buy Crestliner fishing boats, 60-inch Samsung plasma TVs, and Rolex watches. They went for bling, so everyone else could see how cool they were. Another warning sign. They don’t want to be bald guys with beer guts any more than I do. They want to live the good life. Even while they take out second mortgages and pension loans to do it. They want to feel good about themselves. I understand it. If you had told me ten years ago that I would be getting top surgery, I would have told you no, I’m going to stay natural. I’ve worked everything out, I’m fine. I’m OK being butch. I’ve made my peace with it. When I was a kid I wanted to be a boy, and I fought hard to get to where I am, and it is OK.  I do what I want, I wear what I want, I’ve got a dog and a partner, I’m OK. I’m OK. Midlife crisis kicks in when OK is no longer enough. When you can’t do the same thing over and over anymore. Somehow, in the process of repetition, it stops making sense. I was lucky. I didn’t quit my job, I didn’t leave Donna, I didn’t go to an ashram in India, I didn’t buy a convertible. I came out again. I changed my name. I lost weight. I got back in shape. I am not starting over but I am learning to be more flexible and less judgmental. And if anyone wants to make fun of me for having top surgery, then so be it. I’ll be out shopping for new shirts. Notes: Surgery is still scheduled for next Monday (12/8). I’ll probably take at least a week off from blogging while I recover and I’m not expecting to post any “transbucket” worthy photos. You can read about chimps with midlife crises here, and an interesting article from the Atlantic on The Real Roots of Midlife Crisis here.  Authenticity body image butch genderqueer lesbian lgbt midlife crisis non-binary queer retirement top surgery transgender What I Did During My Midlife Crisis  And it really is a BMW. Really. I went for my pre-op physical for top surgery. No big deal. Blood test, urine test, and an EKG. Montefiore Hospital. An hour on the subway; the next to the last stop on the #4 line in The Bronx. I didn’t read or listen to music. I looked at everyone else on the train and wondered what they saw when they looked back at me. I was anxious about the blood test. I am afraid of needles. I have a 50/50 chance of fainting when I give blood or get a shot. I told the nurse I wanted to recline so that If I fainted I wouldn’t fall out of the chair. We talked about our dogs until she finished drawing blood. She has a brindle pit mix. I survived. It was the EKG that got to me. Another nurse left me behind a curtain and told me to take off my shirt and lie down on the gurney. I remembered that I was wearing boxers that stuck up above my jeans and a binder (Air Max velcro). She attached the EKG electrodes to my arms and legs and then she struggled a little to get them under my binder.  She didn’t say anything and I was just about to offer to loosen the velcro when she got the last one attached. While I was on the gurney I realized that once I have top surgery this is going to happen every time I have an EKG or a physical. It will be awkward. With my shirt on, I will be a hard to read flat chested butch. WIth my shirt off, I will be transgender. In no-man’s land. After the test I took the train back downtown to see Dr. Weiss for the “mark-up” – the agreement on what he was going to do and where he was placing the nipples. I remembered that this is something I really want to do. I saw his office manager and paid for the surgery. My insurance company keeps requesting more information. For some reason I am taking this as a good sign. The hard-core butches I know, whether they consider themselves transgender or not, do not try to look like women. You have to work to read them. They do not give you any hints or make it easy for you, even if they have soft skin and lack male secondary sex characteristics. You can’t tell right away if you are looking at a gray-haired teenager or a 50-year-old butch. My butch friends minimize their chests by layering or using elastic. None of them have had top surgery. Only a handful of butches write about it or talk about it. We are a strong and secretive bunch. There is a rational fear that top surgery is a pathway to testosterone, that once you get a taste of transition you will be unable to stop. I need to face my fear. There are butches who went this route and transitioned and I do not question, regret, or mourn their decisions. There are some who remained butch. It is an individual choice in an uncomprehending and hostile world. By having top surgery and not going on testosterone I am putting myself in a position that most trans-masculine folk want to get out of, i.e. perpetually looking like I am in that awkward stage of transition. Are we there yet? I am clearly queer, I am clearly trying to look masculine, yet I am clearly missing the mark of looking like a man my age. The answer is to look harder and to see me as I am. Notes: That funky little car, like my funky path to top-surgery, is a BMW Isetta. The front door is literally the windshield and bumper. See this article for a short history and more pictures of the BMW Isetta.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch Gender genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary queer top surgery transgender Transition Are We There Yet?  Source: http://www.pinterest.com/uukady/transgender-education-affirmation/ Do you ever feel like you are an apple trapped inside a cranberry? Or like a cranberry trapped inside an apple? Or maybe you feel like a cran-apple (or, as auto correct would insinuate, like a crabapple)? Thanksgiving can be a tough time for U.S. fruits like us (transgender, butch, queer, or otherwise gender nonconforming). The ramp up to the holidays is packed full of images of heteronormative families in joyous and loving celebration. The women are working in the kitchen, the men are in the den watching football, and a well-behaved dog is peacefully snoozing by the fireplace. It is a constant reminder of how I don’t fit in, and why I don’t want to fit it. And that I am estranged from my birth family. It ended with Thanksgiving. When Donna and I started our relationship, my mother would not invite her over. She was trying to keep my grandmother from “knowing.”  We were supposed to be one small normal happy family. The main source of happiness in my life was, and still is, Donna. Back then, I didn’t have a dog, but my mother would not have allowed me to bring the dog either. I wouldn’t go to Thanksgiving without Donna. I hoped my refusal would pressure my mother into coughing up an invitation. It didn’t. We table hopped for a few years, but I wouldn’t go home. When Donna and I moved in together we decided to make Thanksgiving dinner in our home. We invited some friends over. Twenty years later, we are still cooking for the same crowd. My grandmother and my mother are both dead; stacked one on top of the other in a mausoleum in Westchester. I spend a lot of time in November thinking about the meal. Donna and I collaborate (negotiate) on which dishes to rotate in or out. We each have our favorites; it is too much work and too much food on the table to make all of them each year. But there are always two cranberry sauces. Donna likes the traditional sauce, and I like one that is all mixed up and savory. There is no acceptable compromise. I used to make a different savory sauce each year. A cranberry chutney with fresh and candied ginger, onion raisin cranberry confit, a cranberry salsa with cilantro and poblano peppers. Two years ago I sampled a spiced cranberry apple sauce at the Greenmarket and thought “I could reproduce this.” It took three tries to get it right, but it was good. So good that It found its place in the Thanksgiving canon, and can not be swapped out. This year the experimentation has shifted to the “onion dish”. November means trying out some new recipes (sweet and sour onions) and tweaking old ones (jeweled roast vegetables). The dishes must be able to be made ahead of time and taste good served at room temperature or reheated with everything else after the turkey comes out of the oven. I’ve still got a week left to play. Because I write about what is on my mind, I offer you these two recipes. Cis Cranberry Sauce for Donna, and Trans Cranberry-Apple Sauce for me. If you have never made cranberry sauce at home, it is super easy, and way better than what you get in a can. Cis Cranberry Sauce:  3/4 cup sugar 3/4 cup water 1/2 tsp salt 1 bag (12 ounces) cranberries, picked over and rinsed (remove any that are soft and squishy). Grated zest of one small orange (if you have a Microplane grater use it, otherwise use a box grater and try not to grate any of the white pith).  In a three quart saucepan, bring the water, sugar, and salt to a boil. Add the cranberries. Bring back to a boil, boil for a minute, and then lower the heat to a simmer. Simmer, uncovered, for 10 minutes or until the berries have stopped “popping” and the mixture thickens. Turn off the heat, add the orange zest, and stir to incorporate. Let rest for a couple of minutes, and then transfer to a storage container. Makes about 2 cups. Trans Cranberry-Apple Sauce:  1 cup water 1 cup sugar 1 bag (12 ounces or 3 cups) cranberries. Picked over and rinsed (remove any that are soft and squishy). 3 cups chopped apples – apples chopped roughly to the size of the cranberries. I use Macintosh but you could use Windows. 1/4 cup currants (OK to substitue raisins) 2 tablespoons cider vinegar (OK to substitue wine vinegar) 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground allspice 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon hot red pepper flakes (add more while it cooks if you want it spicier – Donna is a spice wimp).  In a large saucepan or dutch oven, bring the water and sugar to a boil. Add all the other ingredients and bring back to a boil. Boil for a minute. Reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, for 30 minutes. Adjust salt and red pepper to taste. Let rest for a few minutes and transfer to a storage container. Makes about 4 cups. I scheduled my top surgery for after Thanksgiving so that I could shop, cook, and clean for the holiday. I am thankful that I am able to do both, and thankful to Donna for being here with me. Notes: I was looking for an article on the history of how “fruit” became slang for gay. Instead, I turned up this bizarre clip from the CBC on how the Mounties tried to use a “fruit machine” to identify gay men during the early 1960’s.    Authenticity butch cranberry sauce family of choice genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary queer Thanksgiving transgender Are You an Apple Trapped Inside a Cranberry?  San Diego Gay Pride March, 1983 When I realized I was gay I came out with a vengeance. When I realized I was transgender I came out with a whimper. I came out in my residence hall my first week at college. I came out to my mother and brother at the end of my freshman year. I came out to my co-workers on every job. I came out because I believe there is no point to being in the closet. Being gay is nothing to be ashamed of or to keep private. Being gay means being out. I fit the butch stereotype of a masculine female. I show up on everyone’s gaydar but not on their transdar. When asked “Don’t butch lesbians just want to be men?” I said “No!” because it was the “correct” answer. Even though it wasn’t true, for me. Coming out as transgender is different from coming out as gay. Different presumptions. When I tell you I am gay I am stating that I am sexually and romantically attracted to women. When I tell you I am trans I am stating that I don’t self-identify with my birth sex or the gender imposed upon me when I was born. When I say I am transgender it does not mean that I am transitioning from female to male. It is hard for me to explain what I am doing, or to put a label on it. My so-called transition. My DIY transition. My becoming myself.  It is a messy subject. I don’t know how to answer the question “Do you want to be a man?”  Yes and no. What do you mean by “a man?” There is no magic mix of hormones, surgery, legal papers, documents, clothing, or finishing school that will make me a man. Only I can decide whether I am a man or not. It is about self-identification. If you are cisgender, you probably don’t spend a lot of time thinking about it. When your body isn’t congruent with your brain, you go through all sorts of mental jiu-jitsu to pretend inwardly and outwardly that everything is OK. I’m over that. I’m not doing it anymore. I’m not pretending to be someone I’m not. And if I am not trying to get that M on my documents, it doesn’t mean that I am fine with that F. It means that I need another set of consonant choices and a blank space. What am I saying about myself when I come out as transgender? That I am a person who can neither go stealth nor be in the closet. I want you to know that there is a reason that I am the way I am. I want you to see a child who wanted desperately to be a boy and was repeatedly punished for not acting like a girl. I want you to see a teenager who couldn’t explain why they weren’t interested in fashion, make-up, dating boys, dance, romance novels, soap operas, or sit-coms. I want you to see a young adult trying to live authentically as butch but still having to suppress the desire to be a boy. I want you to see a middle-aged self-identified transgender butch. Notes: Sometimes I like to look back at the early tracts of the LGBT movement to remind myself that I am part of a liberation movement. The Gay Manifesto by Carl Wittman is a classic (1970) and can be found here.  My favorite trans tract (2010) is Not Your Mom’s Trans 101 by Asher. It can be found here.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity butch coming out Gender genderqueer lesbian lgbt liberation non-binary queer transgender Transition How Dare You Presume I’m…?  Bras Across The Bridge – Breast Cancer Awareness – 2011 I managed to make it this far without going through the social rites of passage for a Jewish-American girl. No Bat Mitzvah, no Sweet Sixteen, no Prom, no graduation party, no wedding. No ceremony to mark the crossing of a line, the shift in status from childhood to adulthood. No ancient rituals, no reading of texts, no scarifications. Maybe scarifications. I’m counting down the days to top surgery (December 8). If top surgery is my rite of passage, it is not clear to me what is on the other side of the shore. I’ve been low-key about it because I don’t want to put a hex on it. I am thankful that Donna remains nominally onboard and reconciled to my going through with it. I’ve read up on tips for top surgery and what to expect while you are recovering. I ‘m making a list of what I need to do around the house to prepare. I want to make it as easy on Donna as possible. Over the last fifteen years I’ve had four surgeries (one to repair torn knee ligaments, two to remove fibroids, and a partial hysterectomy). I learned that I get nauseous and depressed from anesthesia. I learned that I am impatient to recover, that I get bored staying at home, and that I don’t like to ask for help. But, I am channelling all of my anxiety about top surgery into the realization that I don’t have the right outfit to come home from the hospital in. Or for lounging around in while I recover.  Or for taking a walk to cool my cabin fever. I threw out my old sweat pants last year. I found an ancient pair of flannel PJ bottoms and my moccasins in a storage box. I have some soft loose button-down shirts. I have my gym shorts. Otherwise, all I wear are denim jeans, corduroy jeans, and twill cargo pants. I’m going to have limited use of my arms. I probably won’t want to pull up my jeans and deal with buttons and a zipper fly right after surgery. Or take naps in my jeans. I need a layette set. I need a couple of pairs of sweatpants, and a light zip-up hoodie. I have a vision of the top surgery stork bringing me home from the hospital and dropping me down the chimney. Swaddled in yellow and green. All fresh and new. Innocent. Reality check: Donna will bring me home in a taxi and I’ll take the elevator to our apartment. I am skeptical of born agains. Skeptical of people who assume that transitioning will solve all of their problems, that they can leave their old life behind in a cloud of dust. Still, I think of top surgery as a way to reclaim a part of myself distorted by puberty. What should a butch or genderqueer person expect to get out of top surgery? I will be happy if I can look at myself in a mirror larger than the medicine cabinet, and if I can stand up straight and breathe deep without feeling self-conscious about my chest. I don’t expect top surgery to alleviate my social anxiety or make up for the traumas of my childhood. It will likely complicate my already complicated presence in women’s bathrooms, dressing rooms, and locker rooms. Despite this, I think looking queerer, and less female-bodied, will feel right. At least to me. I am looking forward to never wearing a bra or a binder again. To the freedom of an unrestricted chest. I’m going to donate my binders to In a Bind, a group that collects binders and distributes them to trans youth who need them. I’m going to donate my bras to Free the Girls, a group that collects new and lightly used bras and assists women in developing countries to resell them in their local used-clothing markets. I hope they find good homes. Note: While thinking about what to do with my binders and bras, the two things that came to mind were burning or composting them. I vaguely remembered that “bra burning” is a myth. This video debunks the famous “bra burning” demonstration at the Miss America contest in 1968. This site explains (to ignorant fools like me) why most bras are not compostable.  Body Image and Clothing breast reduction butch butch body image coming of age genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary queer rites of passage top surgery transgender Transition The Other Side of the Shore  I am trying to listen. Without interrupting, without succumbing to distraction, without shutting down. This is what I hear my six-year-old self say (in not quite six-year-old language): I’m not a girl. I don’t want to be a girl. It doesn’t feel right. I can’t pretend I’m a girl. I hate being a girl. I can’t pretend I’m happy. I don’t want to grow up unless I can be a boy. I want to wear boy’s clothes and play baseball. I want a boy’s name and a crew cut.  I want to be like my Dad. Not like my mother. Not like my grandmother. I don’t want to grow up and be a wife or a mother. If I could, I would turn myself into a boy. I see myself at school, the kid with the cooties. I don’t play at recess. I don’t have friends. I daydream about being a boy. I develop serial crushes. They are all on women. Teachers, student teachers, baby sitters, girls who are a few years older than me. When I fantasize about them I am always a boy. The Board of Education requires me to wear a dress to school. When I get home I change into the least undesirable pants and tops in my dresser. I pretend they are boy’s clothes, even though they are not quite right. I look at myself and try as hard as I can to see a boy. I refuse to go to gymnastics or take dance. I avoid thinking about what it means. I lie and tell people I know I’m a girl, I’m a tomboy, I don’t want to be a boy, I just like boy stuff. I don’t believe it; I know they need to hear it. I hold out hope that one day I will turn into a boy. I learn to live with the dichotomy by not examining it. It is too painful to admit the truth. I develop an intricate set of diversions and defenses. I avoid mirrors and reflective surfaces. I stuff my feelings down by overeating. I hide behind my weight. I refuse to wear anything pink or paisley or lacy. Mostly, I duck into fantasy. I wait childhood out. I find ways to manage. I read The Hardy Boys and watch the Mets on Channel 9. In reality, that is as close as I get to being a boy. It is not close enough. I long for everything that I am not allowed to have. It is unfair. I throw tantrums. I convince myself I will deal with “it” when I go away to college, after I come out, after I finish my thesis, when I get a job, when I find someone who loves me, when I start therapy, after I switch therapists. I kept procrastinating. I kept finding ways to get through they day. It took a long time to find the words. I can not reconcile myself with being a woman; I do not want to reinvent myself as a man. I can not turn the clock back and become a boy. I am what I am. I live a butch life. I am transgender at heart. For a long time, I was unable to complete the loop. I short circuited my thoughts each time I came close. I am trying to listen to that child without hushing him, without telling him to grow up, be realistic, accept his fate. I can not make up for my lost boyhood. I can not wave the pain away. I can only tell him that I am sorry that I made him wait for so long.  Authenticity butch forgiveness Gender genderqueer growing up lesbian lgbt listening procrastination queer transgender Transition Living with the Dichotomy  The past imperfect: I was thinking about my pronouns. I recently joined a group that starts off every meeting with each person sharing their first name, preferred gender pronouns (PGPs), and answering the question of the week (e.g. who is your favorite cartoon character?). Most cisgender people have no problem disclosing their pronouns, and resort to the pronouns they were assigned when they were born. Their gender expression is the same as their sex, and both are congruent with their pronouns. It is tidier when everything matches and nothing changes. There is nothing to explain. I feel trapped when asked to share my PGPs. I can barely say they/them/their. I know I secretly prefer he/him/his, but I won’t say it. It would be a “pronouncement” that I’m transitioning socially. I’m not ready. I may never be ready.  Being asked to state my pronouns makes me feel like I’m “not trans enough.” I hedge my answer. I explain that most of the people in my life, including Donna, use she/her/her, but I prefer they/them/their. I don’t hear the question as “What do you prefer I use when I refer to you?” – I defensively hear the question as “Do you use male pronouns and why not?” In my mind he/him/his pronouns and testosterone go together like love and marriage. As the song states “you can’t have one without the other” even though I know several exceptions to this rule (butches on low dose testosterone who use female pronouns, and trans guys who have never gone on testosterone and use male pronouns). Name change and top surgery don’t push you over the pronoun cliff unless you choose to jump. If I could think of the he/him/his pronouns as masculine, as opposed to male, I might be able to use them. If I could think of he/him/his as the pronoun equivalent of men’s jeans (constructed for men but also worn by others for a variety of reasons) then they might fit me. I wouldn’t be caught dead in women’s jeans. But every day I live with she/her/her. They/them/their would be fine if I could screw up my courage and ask people to use them consistently. Even asking friends to use they/them/their pronouns makes me feel like a demanding special snowflake. Gender expression is full of nuance; gender neutral pronouns are grammatically clunky. It is unrealistic, but I hope that somehow, someday, someone will start using they instead of she, and it will gather momentum and snowball. I don’t want anyone to play along condescendingly. I want them to understand that, until everyone uses the same gender-neutral pronouns, my pronouns should have some relevance to who I am and how I present. She/her/her are wearing thin. I don’t want to be referred to as “her” for the rest of my life. I struggle with residual feminist guilt over it. When I try to articulate why female pronouns annoy me, all I can say is that wearing anything feminine and being called by anything feminine bothers me. It always has and it always will. It is why I changed my name. It is why I dress the way I do. It is why I see myself as a boy, with my dog. The title of my blog is “A Boy and Her Dog” because it captures my conundrum. When I started the blog I hadn’t started trying to use they/them/their. If I called it “A Boy and Their Dog” you wouldn’t get the picture. If I called it “A Boy and His Dog” I’d be probably be sued by the author Harlan Ellison. Notes: While stumbling around looking for a history of gender neutral pronouns I discovered the term “epicene pronouns” and this article by Dennis Baron. I mistakenly assumed that the English language search for gender neutral pronouns started in the 1960’s or 1970’s. He traces it back to 1850.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity butch Gender genderqueer lesbian lgbt preferred gender pronouns pronouns testosterone top surgery transgender Transition Grammar, Preferred Gender Pronouns, and I  What to wear if you are butch and transgender? After five months of slumming I laid out work clothes. I want to feel comfortable going back to the office. I tried on a few permutations of jeans, button down shirts, and sweaters in front of the full length mirror with the lights on. Five years ago this would have been a humiliating and depressing task. Now, I only wish I had sent my sweaters to the cleaners in April instead of throwing them in a heap to moulder. Except for senior management, new employees, and ambitious scum, no one at Transit dresses to impress. There is a lot of cheap polyester. Dated and out of fashion. There is no incentive to buy new clothes if you can still fit in your old ones. There is no written dress code. The expectation for men is a shirt and tie; the expectation for women is nothing that I would wear. My perpetual dilemma. In the worst years of my dysphorias (gender expression, weight, breasts, and body shape) the worst part of my day was getting dressed to go to work. No matter how drab an outfit I put on I felt like I was wearing a neon sign that said “overweight butch lesbian with no sense of style.” Bright colors were worse. I wanted to disappear but I felt huge and ugly. I knew I was wearing women’s clothing and it felt wrong. This went on day after day. I searched for women’s clothing that looked liked men’s clothing. I looked for masculine colors in large petite sizes (a contradiction in terms but think short and fat). There was not much to choose from and I ordered what I could stomach. I loathed all of it. It is hard to look your best when you don’t like what you are wearing. Once, I took out all my shirts, turtlenecks, sweaters, and slacks and laid them out on the bed and played mix and match. I couldn’t try them on and look at myself. I could only look at my outfits detached from my body. I made a list of the best combinations. It bothered me that I could not reconcile myself to wear women’s clothing or find a professional looking solution that I didn’t despise. I considered myself butch, but I didn’t want to think about what it meant that I could not feel like myself in a pair of women’s pants. I did not want to admit that my dysphoria was so bad that the only way I could hold onto myself was by wearing a pair of jeans. One day my boss called a staff meeting. He told us he was leaving to take another position in another city. We stifled our hallelujahs. He told us who the acting boss was. I didn’t hear anything else he said, all I was thinking about was that the acting guy was a wuss. He would be afraid to confront me if I wore jeans to work. I wore jeans. A few months later he was officially given the job, and although it annoyed him, he didn’t say anything and I didn’t change. Gracie gets in the picture. For my return to work, I narrowed my options down to two combinations, and went for the one I am most comfortable in. An orange and white stripe shirt (custom-made), a camel V-neck fair-isle sweater, dark blue jeans, and brown Keen loafers. I’m going to have more shirts custom-made after top surgery. I may not win any dapper awards, but at least I won’t trigger an anxiety attack if I catch a glimpse of myself in the mirror in the Ladies’ Room. I’m not responsible for anyone else’s reactions. Note: The drawing at the top of the post comes from Edith Head’s 1967 classic How To Dress For Success (which is a better read and more fun than John T. Molloy’s horrific The Woman’s Dress For Success Book).    Body Image and Clothing butch butch body image dress for success dysphoria Edith Head genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer transgender What to Wear to Work – Dressing While Butch  All week-long I’ve been singing snippets from Alice’s Restaurant; Arlo Guthrie’s long shaggy dog song about being inducted into the Army. I got processed to go back to work part-time as a consultant at Transit. Elvis at his Army physical, 1958. Photo by Don Cravens / Time Life Pictures / Getty Images It took four months for my paperwork to crawl through the bureaucracy and get approval from the ethics board. It took another month for Human Resources to give me an appointment to get processed. As Yogi Berra said – It’s deja vu all over again. My first day at Transit was my worst day on the job. I was a self-conscious chubby 22-year-old out of the closet baby butch lesbian. It was my first day out of jeans. I did my best to dress for success. I wore clean underwear and a normal bra, a pair of grey wool slacks, a pink Oxford cloth button-down shirt, and a tweed blazer. I wore a strand of pearls to make sure everyone knew I was a girl, even if I wasn’t so sure about it myself. A clerk gave me a sheaf of paper to fill out. One form required me to list every job I ever held, including the address of the business and the name and phone number of my supervisor. I didn’t know some of the zip codes or phone numbers, so I made them up. I had to sign a statement at the end that if they found any discrepancies I could be fired. I turned in the paper and suppressed my snivelling. The clerk stamped the form and sent me across the hall to the “bullpen” for my medical. The room was full of guys waiting for their bus driver physical. Another clerk told to me sit on the blue bench, next to the only other woman in the room. We would be processed when there was a quorum. I had to pee, but I knew there was a drug test during the physical. I asked the clerk how much longer I had to wait. As long as it takes. By early afternoon there were six women on the bench. A nurse ushered us into the examining room. I held it in. She asked us to strip to our bras and panties and measured our height and weight out loud. She asked us to take off our glasses and read the eye chart, and tested us for color blindness. She had us to do a deep knee bend with our arms held up over our head. We got dressed and she took us into a bathroom with stalls but no doors, and gave us each a narrow necked bottle. The nurse watched to make sure no one cheated. I’m pee shy. The nurse told me that I couldn’t leave until I filled the bottle, and that if I left the room I was giving up the job. I started to cry, which made me relax and let loose. I peed all over my hands and all over the bottle. Enough got in. I washed my hands and splashed water on my face. I wanted the job. This was what the real world looked like. It didn’t look like grad school. They fingerprinted us and gave us towelettes to clean the ink off our fingers. We raised our right hands and swore to uphold the Constitution of New York. We received our benefits books, and a copy of rules and regulations. The clerk told us that getting a job with Transit was like hitting the jackpot. You’ll never be this lucky again. I reminded myself that I could leave after a year. I could go back to school. I stayed. Long enough to retire and return on my own terms. This time they sent me on a paperwork chase: Driver’s License, original Social Security card, original birth certificate, original high school and college diploma(s), a blank postal order for $82, and the completed seven page background verification questionnaire (which they neglected to send to me). The name on my birth certificate and diploma is different from the name on my Driver’s License and Social Security card. I added a certified copy of my name change order (with the City Clerk’s raised seal) to the pile. There is a line on the seven page form to list all other names you have been known by and why. I wrote: legal name change to a gender neutral name. I wore jeans to the appointment. I did not wear pearls. Note: Elvis Presley sure looked good at his induction into the Army. For more pictures of Elvis in the Army, see this article.  Authenticity bureaucracy butch genderqueer lesbian lgbt Name change non-binary queer retirement transgender The Paper Chase  I’m writing this post right before the election. I’m trying to stay optimistic, but I just want it to be over. No one I know will admit to voting for Trump. I’m sure some of them are lying to me. Part of Making America Great Again is making America straight (and cisgender) again. It will never happen in New York, no matter who wins, but there will be a backlash in the conservative states. I’m voting for Hillary, without much enthusiasm. I’d rather be voting for Bernie, or for Elizabeth Warren, or for Obama. I’m a little embarrassed to be lumped in with Hillary’s “what a great moment for women” supporters, but I’m in, fingers crossed. I am repulsed by Trump, and by the angry straight white guys, contorted with hate, who attend Trump rallies. I do not want to be like them. It rattles my sense of my own masculinity that so many men support Trump. Most days I feel like I’m OK the way I am, in the middle, masculine enough. Then I get Ma’am’d. Or Donna and I are called “Ladies”. Then I think about the unopened box of testosterone gel in my dresser drawer. Some days I feel that I am in a gender stalemate. Not ready to move forward, unwilling to stay in the same place, needing to do something else, but I don’t know exactly what. I don’t want to push myself to change pronouns or take hormones just to get some traction. I’d like those decisions to come organically, not out of frustration or as a reaction to being Ma’am’d. To buoy (or boy) my spirits I made a list to remind myself how much things have changed in the five years since I first started to think about being trans. Despite the negativity, I’ve got reasons to be cheerful. Here is the list:  I’m glad I changed my name to Jamie. Jamie is the right name for me. I feel like a Jamie, even though I still turn my head every time someone says “Amy” even when they are referring to someone else. I feel entitled to wear what I want and to buy clothing that I like, without apology. I can  honestly say that I wear men’s clothing because I feel better when I wear it. I don’t have to claim half-truths to justify it (better pockets, sturdier, less restrictive, etc.). I feel better about my body. I lost weight and I had top surgery. When I look in the mirror (when I am dressed) I see myself and I am content with what I see. I don’t feel dysphoria at home or on the street. I do experience it in women’s spaces (bathrooms and locker rooms) and I try to avoid them. I’ve stopped apologizing for transitioning, and for not following the standard transition narrative. It is my body and I have the right to do what I want with it. I’m not going “half-way”, I’m going “my way”. I’m not a traitor. If someone has a problem with my gender identity or gender expression that it is their problem not my problem. I’m happy that I worked through the name change and top surgery issues with Donna, even if it slowed things down. I’m thankful that she overcame her transphobia and anger and now supports me and is an ally for transgender rights/liberation. I’m happy that we went through this together. I don’t feel embarrassed or awkward when I am Sir’d (I despise being Ma’am’d). Neither fits. I don’t correct people when they address me using either term. I live in the real world instead of inside my head. I feel my feelings more and I stuff them down/numb them out less. I don’t overeat out of anxiety and I rarely drink to quiet my thoughts. I am tempted to every day, but I am able to resist. I’m a little less shy and somewhat more talkative than I used to be. I respect the struggle of all people who identify as trans. I used to judge other people’s transition decisions. I didn’t understand how difficult it is to live as a transgender person, and how many obstacles there are to transitioning (financial, medical, social, legal). I didn’t get that it is a constant struggle. I get it now.  When I think about where I was five years ago, I can see how much progress I’ve made, and I can dredge up some hope for the future. For me, that is a reason to be cheerful. Notes: Reasons To Be Cheerful is a pop song by Ian Dury and The Blockheads, from 1979. It’s a list song, or stream of consciousness song, similar to It’s The End Of The World As We Know it by R.E.M. (1987), but slightly more upbeat.  Authenticity Gender genderqueer lgbt non-binary queer transgender Transition voting Reasons To Be Cheerful  This is the recommendation letter for top surgery that I wrote but didn’t send. Disclosure – my therapist reads my blog because I am not a big talker. Jamie is an adult and is mature enough to decide to get top surgery. If Jamie wanted breast augmentation I wouldn’t be writing a permission letter, you’d just ask what cup size and take the money.  As confused as Jamie has been about being trans, and as long as it took to get to this point, I don’t think anyone can talk Jamie out of this. It is her their body and I am honestly tired of listening to her them complain about wearing a binder and being a boy. Enough already. Please schedule this ASAP. Maybe then she they will deal with the remaining issues so that she they can finally finish therapy. Grouch Marx and Chico Marx discuss the “Sanity Clause” in A Night at the Opera. I’ve written my own recommendation letters before. A letter from a professor for a job, one from a friend for a co-op apartment purchase package, and my annual performance review at work. I always knew what to say. Lo, those many years ago when I started therapy, I told my therapist that I had three issues I needed to work on: compulsive eating, my Dad’s death, and “gender stuff.” I spent many years avoiding talking. It’s been an expensive game of chess. One move and then a lot of silence. Then another move. When she questioned me I clammed up. Session after session. She waited me out. I’m slow to trust and make personal connections. I expect people to judge me. I look like an old-fashioned butch lesbian. Masculine attire, short hair, sensible shoes. A long-term relationship, a cute dog, and a dented green Subaru Outback. I thought I was keeping “it” under control. No one questioned whether I was butch enough; no one asked me if I was transgender. When there was an opening to talk about it I teetered on the precipice, but regained my balance. I’ve known the truth since nursery school. I coveted anything associated with boys (clothes, toys, mannerisms). I still think I’m a boy. I never gave it up. I just drove it underground into fantasy. Where it festered. Until recently. WPATH (World Professional Association for Transgender Health) recommends that patients get a referral for surgery from a qualified mental health professional; the letter proves that you are sane enough and trans enough to undergo surgery. My surgeon follows the WPATH protocols. My therapist is not a gender specialist; I am her first trans identified client. When I began to talk about being transgender she was not comfortable with the idea of me getting top surgery. But she came around. I’d already researched the requirements for my insurance, the diagnostic criteria for Gender Identity Disorder, and the points WPATH suggests to make in the letter. It made sense for me to write a draft. I fruitlessly looked for sample letters online, then I wrote the letter in my head. It didn’t want to go on paper. I got stuck on the pronouns. When my therapist and I talk, we use each other’s first names, or use the gender-neutral second person you/your/yours. I wrote the letter using they/them/their and realized she probably thinks of me in she/her/hers terms. I cringed and re-wrote the draft using female pronouns. The letter states that she supports my decision, that I have experienced persistent gender dysphoria, and that it causes me pain and suffering. It details my gender expression, my name change, my decision to not go on hormones, and that the next step in my transition should be chest reconstruction. It states that I am in psychotherapy, meet the Gender Dysphoria/Gender Identity Disorder criteria, and that I am not taking medication. It explains that I am aware of the risks, that I understand the surgery is not reversible, and that she is available to coordinate care. She said it was a good letter, made a minor change, and she signed it. I sent it off to the surgeon. My guess is that it will go into my file, unread, an archaic holdover from a time when the gatekeepers still tried to limit access to surgery. Note: You can view the  “Contract Scene” from The Marx Brother’s film A Night at the Opera here. It includes Chico’s classic line “You can’t fool me. There ain’t no Sanity Clause.” The WPATH criteria are on page 28 of this document.  Body Image and Clothing butch ftm gatekeeper Gender identity genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary pronouns queer therapy top surgery letter transgender The Sanity Clause  Before I retired, I put up three goals on the white board in my cubicle; to get my 401K/457 accounts maxed out,  to get my weight down to 140 lb., and to reliably bench press 75 lb. I hit the first two goals, but I got stuck at bench pressing more than 65 lb. I considered hiring a personal trainer to see if I could do it, but it seemed like cheating. As I tried to get past 65 lb., I realized that not all goals make sense. I also made a list of things I wanted to do with my free time. So far, I’ve only learned how to work out with kettlebells. I haven’t started the second blog I want to write, I haven’t attended introductory yoga, and I haven’t cleaned up my room (I straightened out and rearranged the piles). I’m an obsessive person. I try to divert myself from binge overeating and compulsive shopping by taking on new projects (paradoxically every project requires purchasing some books or equipment). If you looked at the stack of books by the couch, you could figure out my current project is revamping my gym workout. There is also a book on hoarding, and another on Afghanistan. It took me ten years to get bored with free weights. I like how butch it feels to use dumbbells and barbells. It separates me from the women at the gym; they mostly use the circuit machines and rarely use the benches. They go to yoga and dance classes; the studio is always full of pencil thin women in their thirties. Working out helps me manage my gender dysphoria and feel strong in my body. I don’t compare my muscles, or how much weight I’m lifting, to anyone else. Some women are scared to work out because they don’t want to look muscle-bound; I wish it was that easy. I accept that if I don’t use testosterone my body will never look ripped. I will never be able to lift significantly more than I do now. I can master the form. I can get compact and sturdier. I can feel more powerful. The kettlebell books for women are about core and tone. The ones for men are about building up muscle. You can paint the exercises pink or blue; you can picture yourself either way. I like the historical way. The bells were counterweights in the farm markets in the Ukraine. The lightest ones were a pood (16.38 kg or 36 lb.) and used by circus strongmen. This resonates with me. You have to start out using a light weight to learn the proper form of an exercise. Once you have mastered it, you can move on to a heavy weight. Two problems. I had to get over my self-consciousness at learning new moves, and the lightest kettlebell in my gym was 8 kg (17.6 lb.). It was too heavy to learn the one-handed overhead moves. I didn’t want to be the dowdy middle-aged butch lesbian with the hairy legs asking for special order lightweight equipment. But, I sucked it up and went and knocked on the manager’s door. I asked her if the gym had any 6 kg bells, and the manager said they should. I asked her to see if they were hidden somewhere, and if not, to order them. I admitted that the 8 kg bells were too heavy for one or two exercises. Last week I saw the little bell on the rack and used it to do vertical cleans and overhead presses. I made another trip to the manager’s office to thank her, and to let her know I noticed. Then I went down to the locker room, showered, and put on my blue camouflage boxer briefs, my binder, and my jeans and flannel shirt. Twenty lithe women changed into lycra capris and tank tops before going upstairs for their yoga class. I stepped out onto Seventh Avenue, feeling like a Ukrainian strongman.    Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch fitness genderqueer gym kettlebells lesbian queer retirement transgender weightlifting On Not Starting Yoga Class  My favorite T-shirt, even though it does not fit. My oldest piece of clothing is a heather blue wool sweater vest. It is over fifty years old and belonged to my Dad. I can’t wear it. My freshman year in college I washed it and threw it in the dryer. I didn’t know any better. I can’t throw the vest away. I can’t fix it. It shares space in my closet with other articles of clothing that are symbolic. There is a beautiful striped men’s T-shirt from J. Crew that is about 20 years old. It never fit. I ordered it pre-internet, from a catalog, over the phone. I’ve hardly worn it. For many years it was too small, too tight across the bust and hips, and too long. Even when I tucked it in, it didn’t fit right or look right.  I held onto it because I wanted to wear it. I lost weight and now the T-shirt is too big and too long. It will always be the wrong cut. Twenty years ago guys wore their T-shirts baggy and tucked in. It was designed for someone who is six feet tall. Yet I can’t imagine throwing it away. It represents a hope I used to have. That a piece of clothing had the power to change my life, to transform me from a self-conscious butch lesbian into a handsome teen age boy. I’ve coveted many pieces of men’s clothing. I never bought one that made a difference in my life. Most have disappointed me. When I was thirteen, I bought a genuine football uniform jersey (in maroon with gold shoulder stripes) at Paragon Sports. I didn’t try it on nor did I realize it was supposed to be worn with shoulder pads. I kept it anyway, in the bottom of my T-shirt drawer. I have clothes that I don’t wear and probably never will wear. I bought them because they had some mysterious masculine appeal. I liked how the shirt or sweater looked on paper, but not how it looked on me. It made me angry that I couldn’t wear it because I was too heavy, or too curvy, or too short, or too female. I’m not good at returning things, even when I know I should send them back. I keep them and then feel remorse for wasting my money and being unrealistic. Part of me is always in denial, always holding out hope. I have my favorite shirts. Shirts I’ve worn until they were riddled with holes, sweaters worn through at elbows and neck. There are a few shirts I love, that I wear all the time. I do not have enough of them. Clothes are a form of non-verbal communication. They can be a tantrum or a mantra. My clothes tell the story of my discomfort with my birth sex, my gender non-conformance, and my confusion in handling it. Every shirt and sweater I own has a back story, a desire waiting for fulfillment.  A moment of anticipation and a moment of disillusionment. A moment when I remember that a shirt is only a shirt and that transformation requires more than a wish and a credit card. Notes: Emily Spivack’s Worn Stories project is a collection of memoirs about clothing. There is a photograph of each piece, and each piece has a story. Her book was just published by Princeton Architectural Press and is available through her website. I found out about it from this interview on NPR.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity body image butch compulsive shopping crossdressing fashion genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary queer transgender Worn Stories Every Shirt Tells a Story  Photo by Wendy Thomas (see notes) I had my last mammogram on Monday. I put it off for four years and only made an appointment because my surgeon required it before he would clear me for top surgery (bilateral mastectomy). I’ve had other mammograms. This one was no different except that it was the last one. I was anxious in the radiology clinic waiting room. The TV blasted the Good Morning America show and it was impossible to read the book I brought with me (Susan Orlean’s Rin Tin Tin). All the women in the room were quiet. They dressed up for their appointments, as if they were going to an interview. I felt overly self-conscious; a parody of a butch lesbian in jeans and a plaid shirt. I wondered what they would think if they knew why I was there. FInally, the receptionist called my name and everyone turned and looked at me as I got up to go to the dressing room. I took off my shirt and binder and put on a short blue gown that opened to the front. The gown didn’t tie high enough or tight enough for my comfort level. My cleavage and I went into the next waiting room. It was filled with silent women in gowns, sitting with their arms crossed in front of their breasts. All of us hoping that we would be called next. The technician came, and lead me to the mammography room. She took four shots, two flat and two rotated and tilted. It was painful and awkward to have my breasts inserted between two plastic plates and flattened, like tortillas in a press, while I held my breath and stood still. It took less than five minutes. They sent me home and told me I’d get the results later in the week. The worst part of the mammogram is the wait; the fear that the radiologists will find something. I’ve had two false positives (the probability of a false positive is about 7% each time). I didn’t talk about them, even to Donna, until after I returned for follow-up tests and I got the “all clear” report. I was scared, but I didn’t want to burden her until I knew for sure. I was optimistic that the spots were just spots. Researchers agree that having top surgery reduces your risk of breast cancer, but there is still a risk, and no one really knows what that risk is, how taking testosterone affects it, or the best way to test for it. Transgender health organizations recommend that a clinician perform an annual chest/breast tissue exam for abnormalities, and that you talk with your doctor. During my consultation with Dr. Weiss, I asked him what he recommended. He prefers annual MRI’s, and would write a script for them. I know I will have trouble making the follow-up appointments for the MRI. I’m relieved to be done with mammograms, just like I’m relieved to be done with menstruating. A few years back I had a partial hysterectomy (because of uterine fibroids), which ended my periods. I chose to keep my cervix because it improves sexual response (I may be stone but I’m an optimist). I chose to keep my ovaries so that I would not be suddenly thrown into early menopause or pressured to take estrogen. I didn’t want to take female hormones. Dysphoria is not good for your health. I ignored my periods until the bleeding from the fibroids got out of control and I became anemic. I didn’t track it. Getting it was always a surprise, particularly when it became fierce and irregular. I didn’t plan for it except to always keep a stash of tampons and panty liners handy. I hated getting my period because it was a reminder of my femaleness. It grossed me out and I never got used to it or used to using tampons. I don’t feel comfortable going back to my gynecologist and I am overdue for a pap smear and pelvic exam. I’m going to have to find a queer/trans friendly clinic. I know that dissociating from things doesn’t make them go away; it just puts me at risk for cervical and ovarian cancer. It is not a risk I want to take. Notes: Fenway Health in Boston has a brochure on breast cancer facts for transgender men and women here. There is an interesting article summarizing current research in the Journal of Midwifery & Women’s Health here (to read it open the link and then look to the right to click on the “get pdf” icon for the article). The picture of “Mammo-Grahams” comes from Wendy Thomas of Lesson’s Learned from the Flock.  Butch Or Trans? body image butch dysphoria genderqueer lesbian lgbt mammogram non-binary queer top surgery trans health transgender My Last Mammogram  I’m not writing about Atlantic Codfish or non-GMO corn. I’m trying to balance my butch identity with my transgender identity; to walk the trans-masculine tightrope. It is about being honest in my relationship, talking in therapy, being open at work, and showering at the gym. It is about the long haul. Philippe Petit crossing between the unfinished towers of the World Trade Center, 1974 It isn’t about labels. It is about asking for, and accepting, support for who I am. I am not good at the getting help thing. Sometimes I feel like I am lost, without GPS, and afraid to ask for directions. I don’t know if I am just around the corner from my destination, or if it is still miles away. What does it take to live as a non-binary (genderqueer, agender, or neutrois) person? I’ve been visibly queer since childhood, but it wasn’t always intentional. I couldn’t stomach the alternatives. What does it take to do it deliberately and consciously? Please don’t answer patience and perseverance. Being in the middle feels more right than the alternatives. I don’t think it is a rest stop on the journey to trans man, but stopping short is socially awkward. A body in motion stays in motion. No one outside the community has asked me what my preferred pronouns are or used them in my presence. I fill out forms that require me to check off M or F. When I self-correct the form, I am given the lame excuse that the computer will only accept one or the other. There is no box for butch, trans-masculine, or queer. Just F or M, when I need FML (see my notes if you are not familiar with the acronym). I am still looking for the PATH. I had to choose whether to go through life defaulting to F or transitioning to M. I’m in default F mode, confusing people without apology. I don’t think I need to change my gender marker or take testosterone, but I can not make compromises that throw me into the vortex of body dysphoria. There are some things I can compromise on. I can tolerate being seen as female as long as I can express that I am trans-masculine. I can tolerate dealing with a women’s locker room freak out when I forget that I am wearing boxer briefs and a binder. I can tolerate female pronouns even though I prefer the third person singular. I can live with the institutional default to F, even if I would check a different box if it existed. I found out that I can’t compromise on my name or top surgery (although I did agree to delay surgery until December). I can’t compromise on what I wear (jeans, button downs, flannel shirts, and T-shirts). I can’t pretend that I am just butch; I can’t pretend that I am not transgender. My plan for the fall is to line up support for top surgery, for staying in the middle, and for being open about it. I want to be in it for the long haul. Notes: Philippe Petit walked that wire without safety nets and without permission. A summary of his story is here. While I was at NYCT, my co-workers had a chuckle as senior management tried to place the blame on low-level staff for the unintentional sign f-up. Here is CNET’s report, and for a history of FML there is this post at Cracked.  Authenticity butch compromises dysphoria Gender genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary queer sustainability top surgery transgender Sustainability  Sweet Corner Bakery on Hudson Street, sidewalk service. Thanks to Brannen’s post on Undefine Me!, I now proudly claim the label of Dog Lover (more on sustainability and labels in another post). The day that I adopted Gracie, I told her to be patient. I told her that when I retire we will hang out on the couch and read, go out for long walks, head up to the dog run, and take naps together. It hasn’t exactly turned out that way. I’m a little too anxious to just relax and hang out at home. I’m restless. When I’m not on the computer, or in the kitchen cooking, I like to keep moving. It is not easy to take her with me when I run errands. Gracie’s behavior in public spaces is not impeccable. There are only so many places you can take a dog in New York (food trucks, banks, and bookshops are the best). When I want to fulfill my promise to her I fill my thermos mug with coffee and we walk. I grew up in Manhattan and I’ve always walked wherever I was going. It is not unusual for me to walk eight miles in a day. It is good exercise and it clears my head. I’m a brisk, heads down walker. It is my thinking time, unless I have Gracie with me. When I’m with Gracie I am on dog time. She wants to stop, sniff, and socialize. Gracie and I go “out” at least three times a day. There are owners who take their dog down to the corner curb, count to ten, and then go back inside. Not me. If I start a sentence with “Do you want to go…” Gracie goes and sits by the door waiting for me to put on her leash. Even if I am talking to Donna, not her. Gracie is an optimist. It is a good quality. Walking with Gracie is not the same as walking by myself. I have to stay present. If I let my mind drift she darts for a chicken bone or gobbles some mystery meat off the pavement. I have to pay attention when another dog comes towards us. I wish she was predictably friendly, but she has a complicated dance card and I don’t always guess right. I’m still learning to read her. Dogs generally read me better than people do. They don’t care about gender identity or sexual orientation or where you bought your jeans. Dogs pick up my vibe. They know I am friendly and an easy mark. When I am out walking with Gracie I become the me that I always hid. The me that I only felt when I was in my room. The part that didn’t get expressed with other people. The part of me that can play. When I am with Gracie I let my boy out, and he is a dog lover. People are friendlier when I am out with Gracie. Perhaps it is because I am more animated. Or look more natural than when I am walking by myself. More approachable. Maybe it is because Gracie is cute. Or maybe it is because we both look happy and happiness is contagious.  Note: A few days ago I received an email from the New York Public Library with a survey to find out who you would be if you were a classic children’s book character. Unfortunately, I turned out to be Eeyore instead of Christopher Robin. If you want to take the survey you can find it here.  Doggerel authenticity butch dogs genderqueer lesbian retirement transgender When the Best Label is Dog Lover  David Bowie in a man’s dress, 1971 David Bowie said it best “You must understand that it’s not a woman’s. It is a man’s dress.” If a dress is made for a man, or bought by a man, it becomes his. He owns it. The dress has no gender; the person wearing it does. There was a cold snap and I broke out my favorite flannel shirt. It is a classic L.L. Bean, a Black Watch Plaid, in a women’s large. It used to look really good on me, before I lost weight. Now it is super baggy. I can still wear it, but I’m hesitant. It buttons to the left (the girl’s side). I’m struggling with this. My weight is down from 175 lbs. to 140 lbs., but my height is still five foot four. My eyes have not adjusted. I can only see how much weight I’ve lost when I try to wear my old clothes. I’ve downsized my jeans several times and replaced a few worn out T-shirts. My button-down shirts are between two and five years old. They are between big and too big. I stopped buying dress shirts because I knew I was going to stop working. Then I went on a self-imposed flannel hiatus because I have slew of old flannel shirts. It didn’t last. Then I decided to completely stop shopping for shirts because I want to wait until after I have top surgery. If I need to shop, I will stick to sneakers and hiking shoes. It is almost impossible for me to buy a women’s shirt off the rack. I’m petite (I hate that word) and I won’t touch anything that has darts, princess seams, funny collars, or odd plackets. I’ll wear clothing made for women that looks like it is made for men. There isn’t much out there. It is also almost impossible for me to buy a men’s shirt off the rack. I like the styles, but the sleeves end below my fingertips, the body is too long, and if the chest fits it doesn’t close over the hips (and if the hips fit it is too big everywhere else). I have a half-dozen fabulous custom-made dress shirts from CEGO shirtmakers. They were perfect when I weighed 165 lbs. The neck fits, the sleeves are the right length, the body is the right length, they fit over my hips, and they button to the right. They are too big, and I don’t wear them anymore. I think of them as men’s shirts, but since they were custom-made for me, maybe I should think of them as butch/transgender shirts. I may be an idiot, but I can’t stand to think of them as women’s shirts. I also have a half-dozen custom (women’s) classic Oxford cloth shirts that I bought at Brooks Brothers when I was 155 lbs. They still look good, even though they are a little baggy. Except that they button the wrong way. It is my quandary, to wear them or to give them away. Donna claims no one else notices which side my shirts button on. And, she reminds me, no matter which shirt I am wearing, I read as masculine, not male. Some guys are oblivious to fashion and some pay attention to what other guys are wearing. They’ll snicker if they see a guy wearing a brown belt with black shoes, or wearing blue socks with a black suit. I don’t want to be one of those guys. GSElevator writes about this in How To Dress The Part On Wall Street. He’d notice the buttons. Do I care about him? Am I so shallow that seven buttons have me in a swivet? Women may wear men’s clothes, but men do not wear women’s. There are boyfriend cardigans and boyfriend jeans for women, but no girlfriend jeans for men. It turns out that this is not entirely true. Levi’s marketed an “ex-girlfriend jean” for men. A tight punk rocker cut. Most guys don’t borrow their ex-girlfriend’s clothes (and why the ex, instead of just girlfriend?). For the record, over the years, Donna has purloined several of my T’s and flannel shirts. I have never, ever, ever, worn a piece of her clothing. I have a fantasy that men’s shirts will fit better after I have top surgery. Logically, I know that the discrepancy between my chest and my hips will still make it difficult for me to buy a shirt. If I want a shirt that buttons to the right and fits, I will have to go back to CEGO. A survey of my closet turned up over twenty flannel shirts. Only two (both L.L. Bean mediums purchased last year during the hiatus) fit properly, and they both button on the left. I will need to look back at David Bowie and think of them as butch/transgender shirts. Because that is who I am. Note: After an extensive investigation it was discovered that GSELEVATOR never worked at Goldman Sachs. The New York Times expose of the Tweeter is here. Some people take Twitter way too seriously.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch butch body image David Bowie Flannel shirt Gender genderqueer L.L. Bean lesbian lgbt queer transgender Which Side Are You On?  I have an aversion to groups of girls. It is deep seated. The girls at P.S. 40 Manhattan were a mean bunch, a nasty clique. When I see a group of girls together, I flinch. I don’t see them as adorable or playful. I don’t trust them. I can’t remember back to when girls were just girls. I went to school, from kindergarten through sixth grade, with the same twenty or so girls. Line up, recess, lunch, dismissal. Outside the classroom I was a target. Push, elbow, poke. Eww, keep away from me, you’ve got cooties.  Teased and shunned. For being fat, for wearing ugly clothes, for being a misfit. Eww what’s that smell? Get away. There were two ringleaders who kept the other girls in line. They weren’t girly girls, they weren’t rich girls, they weren’t smart girls, but they were good at what they did. I had no friends at school. Wendy and Julie saw to it. Don’t let her touch the ball, we’ll have to decontaminate it. I did not want to play their games. I did not want to sit at their table. I see London, I see France, What is in your underpants? I did not want them to police my behavior or my gender (if I’d only had the terms to describe it then). Before I started kindergarten, before I knew the jargon, before some of the jargon existed, before I could formulate the words, I knew I was not like them. I was a boy and I was attracted to women. If I didn’t have the thoughts concurrently, I intertwined them quickly. Besides thinking I was a boy, I started hating being a girl, and hating all things associated with girls, especially the ones at P.S. 40. This included all things pink or frilly, girl’s games, girl’s books, and girl’s behavior. I have no tolerance for cattiness, name-calling, cliques, or ostracism. I know that these are not genetic traits. I know that boys are just as vicious and petty, but my tormentors were girls. I’d like to be less judgmental of girls who are girly. I ‘m comfortable being butch, being masculine, and being transgender. I’d like to distance myself from girls and femininity without scorning them. I don’t want to begrudge any child a pink tutu or a sparkly wand. I don’t want to be a hater. I clomp around in construction boots. I assiduously avoid anything feminine (unless it is from the men’s department). No one is trying to dress me in pink tulle or make me attend ballet class. I don’t experience any pressure to be more feminine or female appearing than I am except when I am in a “women’s only space” e.g. a bathroom, a locker room, or a dressing room. Who gets to decide if I am a woman or a man, both or neither? I do. Neither the Macy’s sales associate counting the number of shirts I want to try on, the receptionist handing out towels at the gym, nor the women on line to use the toilets get to decide. Nor do Wendy and Julie. Nor do the RadFems.  In the August 4, 2014 edition of The New Yorker there is an article titled “What is a Woman?” When I read the title, I was hoping for an article about sex and gender, chromosomes and hormones, fluidity versus the binary, or how we conceptualize our identity. I was not expecting a biased and reactionary article about Radfems and their insistence that trans women are really still men. Or an article that conflates being transgender with having erotic compulsions. The article did not discuss legal identity versus social identity. Or who gets to decide if we are men or women (medical doctors, psychologists, judges, or government agencies), or what happens when policies are personalized, vary by county and state, and are inconsistently applied. We will have to continue writing those articles ourselves. Note: Autostraddle ran a critique of the article here and Julia Serrano wrote a scathing Op-Ed piece about her experiences being interviewed by The New Yorker in The Advocate here.   Butch Or Trans? authenticity bullying butch Gender genderqueer lesbian lgbt memoir Misogyny queer TERF transgender When I See Pink I See Red  There are only a dozen family photographs of me as a child. There are a handful of elementary school portraits and class pictures. My high school yearbook. Then I disappear from sight. There are no pictures of me between 17 and 24; between when I came out and when I met Donna. I hid from the camera. I felt fat, ugly, and awkward. I didn’t want to be reminded of how bad I looked. Donna came with her camera. She loves to take photographs. I hated my childhood pictures. They were proof that I was a girl. There are no candid photographs. No happy, relaxed shots. I am posing. Stand up straight, look up at the camera, smile, don’t move. My parents owned a camera but rarely used it. We were an unhappy family and the tension shows in our faces. Unhappy people do not want to document their lives. They are waiting for things to get better. When Donna takes out the camera, my kid fears resurface. My mother could not make me look happy. My eyes are anxious, my body is stiff. She is angry that this is the best I can do and it is not good enough. I am ruining the family portrait, a blemish that can not be covered up. She says she doesn’t know what is wrong with me. She is lying. I am not the girl in the dress. I was somewhere else when that picture was taken. I am in the photograph but I am also missing from it. The picture conveys one external moment of my childhood. It reveals nothing about what was going on inside. The pictures of me as a boy are all in my head. There is no physical evidence. When my brother and I emptied out my mother’s apartment, the one we grew up in, we looked through a small file box of photographs. They were from before we were born, full of people whom we resemble but do not recognize. They look happy. There was a rift between my grandmother and her siblings, my mother and her cousins. They stopped speaking. No one would say why. Jamie at Foley Square, July 2014 Donna is patient. She knows I hate having my picture taken. She humors me. She tries her best to capture me, but it is her view, not my view, that she is looking for. She gets me to laugh. Click. Click. Click. Please don’t make me look like a girl. Please let me see myself in the picture. Donna has taken hundreds of pictures of me. Most of them are unflattering. It is not her fault. She took this one recently at an anti-war demonstration. It almost does the trick. I do not feel betrayed by it. Self consciousness, negative body image, and gender dysphoria. A toxic brew. I have days when I feel all right, and then I see myself from the wrong angle and I become a disconnected set of female body parts. It takes a lot of effort to pull myself back together. I keep reminding myself that I am more than my image, more than my body. Gracie wishes I would put the camera down and take her for a walk. I have more pictures of Gracie than I have of myself. It isn’t so easy to take a good picture of her. Gracie doesn’t like it when I put the camera close to my face. She breaks her stay and comes toward me, hesitating, quizzical. It works best when I have an assistant to handle the camera – I can sweet talk her and wave a treat in the air while someone else takes as many pictures as possible. Gracie gets excited by the treats and ignores the camera. I wish it worked that way for me. Note: Not all people who are butch, queer, genderqueer, and/or transgender have gender dysphoria or negative body image. I’d like to let go of it and become one them. In thinking about this issue I came across two interesting posts –  this one on overcoming hating being photographed and another on the difference between negative body image and dysphoria.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity body image butch dysphoria Gender genderqueer lesbian lgbt memoir photography queer transgender Hiding from the Camera  Because I can not picture myself as a middle-aged straight guy any better than I can picture myself as a middle-aged lesbian. I can’t see myself. Either way. A butch buddy told me that “the difference between butches and trans men is that butches want to be boys and trans men want to be men.” There is some truth in that statement. Three years into accepting that I’m transgender, I’m still hanging in the balance. I’m not a girl, I don’t feel like a woman, I wish I were a boy, I’m not sure I’m a man. I still identify as butch. I can see myself as butch. I can see myself after top-surgery. Butch doesn’t have to qualify a noun. Neither does transgender. All of the terms that I use to describe myself are masculine or gender neutral (with masculine as the default) – gay, queer, butch, genderqueer, non-binary, transgender. I avoid using the ones that are female specific – lesbian, dyke, even female-to-male. My rejection of all things feminine, my rigidity about masculine gender expression, and my lack of gender fluidity keep landing me back on the trans-masculine spectrum. I know there are butches out there who are comfortable being female, but I am not one of them. It doesn’t mean I am not butch. Leonardo DiCaprio in Birkenstock sandals. He looks pretty butch. I’ve got a Subaru and three pairs of Birkenstock sandals to prove it. I never pretended to be a feminine woman. I knew I had a girl’s body, but acting like a girl didn’t come naturally to me. I wrote off my discomfort to being a tomboy, then I wrote it off to being butch. I couldn’t handle a female false front. I hated anything that made me appear vaguely feminine or womanly. It caused too much turmoil. I didn’t have the words for it until I read about body dysphoria and gender dysphoria. Then I was able to separate sexual orientation from gender identity. The Kinsey Sexuality Rating Scale (1948) recognized the wide range of sexual orientation, and proved that sexual orientation is not binary. Most people are neither 100% straight (0) nor 100% gay (6); they fall in-between. There are women who kvell about being a perfect size 6. I am a perfect Kinsey 6. Kinsey understandably assumed that everyone was cisgender (Christine Jorgensen’s “sex change” was big news in 1952). The Kinsey Scale stops making sense if you are transgender; you can go from a 6 to a 0 if either you or your partner change gender markers. There is no scale that recognizes the complexity of the gender spectrum. Harry Benjamin tried to develop one for male-to-female transsexuals in 1966, basing it on the Kinsey Scale. It is from the dinosaur era. Before the WPATH Standards of Care the Benjamin Scale was used to determine/restrict access to hormones and surgery. If you said you were attracted to the opposite sex (of the sex you were assigned at birth – i.e. between a 0 and a 4 on the Kinsey Scale) then you were encouraged to reject surgery and stay straight. It was a forbidden double whammy to be a homosexual transsexual. I’d put myself somewhere between a 4 and a 5 on the Benjamin Scale; until recently I would have had to lie to get access to hormones and/or surgery. There is a part of me that would like to be a perfect 6 on the Benjamin Scale (a “true transsexual”). I was a kid who always wanted a high score. I studied the SAT prep books, took practice exams, and got a good night’s sleep before the test. I learned how to take standardized exams. I knew how to answer the questions. I wanted validation. I’m starting to put the paperwork in motion for top-surgery. I’m going to be honest about who I am and why I want it. I’m not at the end of the gender spectrum, but that doesn’t invalidate my gender dysphoria or my discomfort with my chest. My surgeon follows the WPATH Standards of Care. No extreme arguments are necessary, just a few hoops to jump through. I’m going to jump. I’ll still be butch.  Note: The Transsexual and Transgender Road Map site has some interesting pages on gender tests and on transgender categories. It is worth a look.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity Benjamin Scale body image butch genderqueer Kinsey Scale lesbian lgbt non-binary queer top surgery transgender Transition Why I’m Still Butch  Urbino, on a sunny day. I told Donna that no one wants to hear that she was disappointed by our trip to Italy. No one cares that it was rainy and cold for 12 days in a row, or that her intermediate level Italian wasn’t as fluent as she hoped (she eavesdropped, but she was unable to follow conversations). No one has empathy for someone who spent three weeks traveling in Italy and then complains about it. I had a good time, especially in Venice. We stayed there for a week. It is a walking city, and late in the afternoon, while Donna napped, I went out for an hour stroll along the quiet back and side canals. It is possible to get away from the hoards of tourists; they mostly stick to a few major thoroughfares and the area near Piazza San Marco. Near Piazza San Marco, even in October, the crowds were overwhelming. The Venetians are trying to put some limits on tourism, especially giant cruise ships. I can relate to their anger. I live near Chelsea Market, which is mobbed by tourists. It is too frustrating for me to shop there on the weekend. Some days I just want to knock the selfie sticks out of my way and tell them that they are in a market, not Madame Tussauds Wax Museum. After Venice, we went to Ravenna to look at 5th and 6th century mosaics. Then we drove to Le Marche and Umbria, and poked around churches, abbeys, museums, hill towns and castles. We drove to the Adriatic coast for a leisurely lunch of spaghetti with clams and mixed grilled fish. I took my afternoon walks in mist and drizzle. There were a few churches we wanted to visit that were closed; they were damaged by the August earthquake in Amatrice  (6.2 magnitude). We briefly talked about what we would do if we felt tremors or aftershocks. Donna used to live in San Francisco. She said you wait for the earthquake to stop, throw on your clothes, grab your wallet and passport, and get out of the hotel ASAP. We didn’t feel any aftershocks while we were there, and didn’t give it much thought. We left Umbria on October 19. On October 26, a 5.1 magnitude earthquake struck near Visso, followed two hours later by a 5.5 magnitude earthquake, followed by a series of tremors and after shocks. On October 30 there was a 6.6 magnitude earthquake near Norcia. Buildings collapsed in several of the towns we had visited two weeks earlier. Fortunately, there were few injuries, and no reported deaths. I never felt at risk in Italy. I took precautions against pick pockets in Venice. I drove carefully on the twisty mountain roads and the Autostrada. I was not afraid of being mugged or of being attacked for being queer (or trans). In the U.S., I’m always on guard. I’m always aware of the possibility of violence. I feel the tension in the air. I did not feel gender policed in Italy. I felt comfortable in my own skin/clothes. I don’t know whether this was the Italians, or if I’m in a different place with it, or a combination of the two. I felt normal awkward tourist feelings; the desire to eat a good dinner without committing a faux pas (or in Italian, a gaffe). I tried not to eat the bread before my food arrived and I made an effort to order espresso instead of cappuccino after noon. I relaxed. Donna did well despite her complaining; she managed to do a lot of walking and we visited museums and churches without a problem (we took breaks and she had to stop and rest, but that is normal). She didn’t act like someone recovering from heart surgery or a broken ankle. It wasn’t our best trip together, it certainly wasn’t our worst. We can still travel together and have fun. I missed Gracie, and I’m glad I’m back. Notes: While I’ve lived through terrorist attacks and super storms, I’ve never experienced a major earthquake, and would not know what to do. This is a link to the U.S. earthquake preparedness site. I’ve also gotten lax at home; I should make sure I have three days of drinking water, some more canned food, and fresh batteries on hand (we were without power and running water for 5 days after Sandy). I am thankful that we had travel insurance for this trip, and that we did not have to use it.  Butch Or Trans? butch earthquake genderqueer Italy marche non-binary queer transgender travel umbria Venice Terra Firma  My mother put me on my first diet when I was eleven years old. It was probably the Stillman Diet, but I called it the “cottage cheese and TaB diet” because that is all I remember about it. I didn’t lose much weight. I ate whatever she fed me plus whatever I could get my hands on. For years I wouldn’t touch cottage cheese, but I became a TaB addict. I ate compulsively and unconsciously. I ate prophylactically, and opportunistically. I just ate. I couldn’t say why. And I washed it all down with TaB. Two cans for breakfast, a can with every snack or meal, a can when I was anxious or restless. Leaving a pile of bright pink cans in my wake. I tried to switch to Diet Coke, but it was too sweet. There was something acrid and chemical in TaB that had me hooked. I drank so much of it that I stopped tasting it. I kept track of which grocery stores and deli’s carried it; I kept a stash to make sure I never ran out. The incongruity of being masculine and drinking TaB was not lost on me. I ignored the screaming pink cans and sexist marketing campaigns. I wanted my fix. My weight embarrassed me, but I didn’t diet. I felt awkward and ugly and frumpy; all of the negative butch stereotypes. Being fat was part my tantrum. I don’t want to be a girl. I don’t want to wear dresses. I don’t want to be pretty. I don’t want to fit into anything you are going to put me in. Eating made me stop thinking. Eating diverted my feelings. My brain went quiet while I was chewing and sipping. I knew there was something going on underneath. Drinking TaB helped me avoid it. Have a bad thought, reach for a can. For years, TaB came with the following warning “Use of this product may be hazardous to your health. This product contains saccharin which has been determined to cause cancer in laboratory animals”. I ignored it. I gloated when the regulators allowed Coca-Cola to remove the warning. I was vaguely dissatisfied with everything in my life and I hated my body. Donna told me to join a gym because it might make me feel better. When I start a new project, I start by reading. I took out Martina Navratilova’s Shape Yourself. When Martina goes grocery shopping she reads the label of each package and can of food. If there are any ingredients in it that she doesn’t recognize, or are artificial, she puts it back on the shelf. Martina would put back the six-pack of TaB. I decided to give up artificial sweeteners and high fructose corn syrup. I tried to stop drinking TaB, but I couldn’t go cold turkey. I read up on how to break your diet soda addiction. I switched to coffee in the morning and Diet Dr. Pepper with meals. Then I substituted seltzer for the Diet Dr. Pepper. It took a few months but I was able to stay off saccharin, aspartame, and sucralose. I feel better. I drink a lot of coffee and seltzer. I’m still wired and gassy. Giving up TaB did not automatically give me access to my feelings or make me accept being transgender. It was one more thing that made it harder for me to short circuit my thoughts about wanting to be a boy, wanting to look like a guy, and hating how my body looked. They began to bubble up to the surface, eventually they broke through. One of my parting gifts from my office mates was a can of TaB. I took it home, afraid to open it, afraid that if I took a sip I’d be addicted again. I put it in the fridge to chill. I reached for the can, popped it open, took one swig, and then another. I drank half the can and thought This is disgusting. Pour it down the sink and recycle the can. You’re not a TaB girl anymore. Martina, with dogs. Note: Martina Navratilova came out as gay in 1981, on her own terms, upon gaining her U.S. citizenship. She was the first major sports star to come out (Billie Jean King was outed). She talks about growing up, defecting to the U.S., and coming out on these videos on Maker.  Body Image and Clothing breaking habits butch compulsive eating diet soda dieting genderqueer lesbian lgbt martina navratilova queer TaB transgender How Martina Navratilova Saved my Life  My elementary school graduation in 1970. I might have been happier in a jacket and tie, but pointy collars were in style. It was a simple question, an ice-breaker at a meeting. If you could invite anyone over for dinner, dead or alive, who would you choose? We were going around the circle, and I wished I was more imaginative. My immediate reaction was “I’d like to talk to my dad.” I could have said Emma Goldman or Magnus Hirschfeld. John Lennon or Rosa Parks. Would Mahatma Gandhi be looking at his watch, wondering if he had to stay for coffee and dessert? Would Audre Lorde have to feign interest in my writing? Would she wonder why she was brought back for this when there were so many more interesting things she could be doing? My dad would be tickled that I choose him. He was forty-three when he died; I was thirteen. I wish I could talk to him. I’ve got questions. My dad accepted that I was an eccentric kid. He didn’t try to make me act like a girl. He used to give me his version of “It gets better.” It was a riff on how it was a big world, and once I got out on my own I would find other people like me to be friends with. I half-heartedly believed him. We never talked about my wanting to be a boy or about lesbians or transsexuals. He tried, more than once, to tell my mother that I was not going through a phase, and that I was not going to out grow out of it. He told her it was counter productive to try to force me to change. My mother over ruled him. She was the authority on raising children. She expected me to marry a man and have kids. He did not stand up to her. I wanted him to protect me. He often failed.  When I couldn’t contain myself, when I lost my temper, when I lashed out, he admonished me: “Watch your language and be respectful. She is still your mother.” I didn’t know how to handle being picked on and bullied at school. I desperately needed to escape from my mother’s criticism and haranguing. I withdrew into my own fantasy world; it was the only place I could be a boy, the only place that was safe. I slipped away from him. I have a lot of questions about what my childhood was like, but I don’t trust anyone except my dad. I can remember clearly what was going on inside my head, but my memories of being a girl in the real world are vague and scattered. I’d like to ask him about the suit. He took my brother shopping for a Bar Mitzvah suit; I was ten years old, and tagged along. The salesman sized us up. He told my dad that Jon was probably a regular, but I was definitely a husky. My dad laughed, and explained that he was only looking for a suit for his eldest. He didn’t tell my mother. He didn’t say anything else about it. I’d like to ask him if he could see what my mother was doing to me. Did he worry about the long-term effects? Did he think I was going to be a butch lesbian? Did he understand that I really wanted to be a boy? What did he think I was going to be like when I grew up? How far would his unconditional love go? I try not to think about how my life might have turned out if he had lived. If he would have helped me make better choices. If I would have listened. My dad died in his sleep. They told me it was an aneurysm. I woke up and he was gone. I’m left with my questions and an empty seat at my table. Note: Public television and radio stations sometimes auction off dinners with a celebrity during fund drives. Here is a link to George Plimpton reading “Dinner at Elaine’s” on The Moth; his story of what happened after a listener donated all of his savings to have dinner with him.  Authenticity bullying butch childhood Dinner At Elaine's Gender genderqueer growing up lesbian lgbt memoir parenting queer transgender I’d Like to Talk to My Dad  When I get dressed, the first question I ask myself is “Does this look OK on me and would a guy wear this?” I never ask myself “Does this make me look like a terrorist?” This morning I looked in the mirror and realized I was wearing the same clothes that I wore the last time I went through security at JFK. Blue jeans, black T-shirt, blue chambray work shirt, and gray wool socks. I took off my belt, my sneakers, and my watch. I emptied my pockets, put my quart-size bag of toiletries and my electronics on the tray. I waited my turn, walked into the machine, spread my legs, put up my hands, counted to three, and when the TSO (Transportation Security Officer) nodded, I walked out to retrieve my stuff. Not so fast. The officer ordered me to go through the machine again. Then another officer patted me down very thoroughly, particularly around my groin and my chest binder, and swabbed my hand for explosives. The TSO originally pressed the blue button for male and when lots of yellow squares appeared on the screen, she realized she made a mistake, and put me through again pressing the pink button for female. Donna overheard the discussion between the officers. It was neither private nor discreet. They did not realize she was with me. The last three times I’ve traveled, I’ve had my palm swabbed for explosives. It wasn’t random. Donna waltzed through. My gender is seen as a potential threat to Homeland Security; hers is not. The USA uses Advanced Imaging Technology (AIT) machines at some checkpoints. The TSA (Transportation Security Administration) video states that AIT is used to search for concealed weapons, explosives, and other “potential threats.” According to the manufacturer, AIT machines can handle between 200 and 300 people an hour, although the lane never moves that fast. Each time the officer has to press either the blue button or the pink one. If, from their perspective, they press the wrong one, it isn’t their fault. I dressed in blue, they pressed blue. If you wear a binder, if you pack, or if your body shape doesn’t match the colored button, you may trigger a “genital anomaly” alert. This draws the attention of the TSO and the people behind you in line. Anomalies were not discussed on the TSA webpage on Transgender Travelers. The National Center for Transgender Equality Airport Security Update provides some information. It is not my responsibility to tell the TSO which button to push, or to present more femininely, to make it easier. They are supposed to police for terrorism, not gender. I’d already shown security my boarding pass and my passport. All of my documents match. My genitals and my gender expression don’t. The TSA presumes that there is something wrong if the two don’t match. The implied message is that gender non-conforming and transgender people are a potential threat to security because we are hiding something. It wasn’t so long ago that the government routinely denied security clearances to gay men and lesbians (who couldn’t be trusted because they could be blackmailed). I know there are people who will ask “Well, what did you expect?” They think my discomfort and inconvenience is a small price to pay. They may believe racial and religious profiling makes the country safer. It doesn’t. It reinforces the idea that the people profiled are more dangerous than the “average American.” I present in a way that makes me feel comfortable. When I am Sir’d, I feel seen, but I am on guard for a correction or an apology. When I am Ma’am’d, I cringe on the inside. When I get put through security twice and swabbed for explosives, I remember that I am a gender outlaw and a potential threat to society. Note: While writing the post I wanted to use the correct title for the TSA employees, which turns out to be officer, not agent or screener. I found this out by looking up “TSA Job Titles” and reading the description of what a TSO (Transportation Security Officer) does. My favorite part is where it describes two of the challenges of being a TSO as “working with minimal staffing” and “working with outdated, old equipment.” Safety first!  Body Image and Clothing airport security butch Gender genderqueer homeland security lesbian lgbt queer transgender travel traveling while transgender TSA A Potential Threat to Homeland Security  Nipper listening to His Master’s Voice singing “Masculine Women & Feminine Men” I’m having trouble telling the last of my casual acquaintances about my name change (almost two years into it). I’m also thinking about how to explain why I want to have top surgery. When people ask me “What’s going on?” I keep it all inside and say “Nothing much, what about you?” Everyone who is important to me knows about the legal name change, but I keep running into people who greet me using my birth name. Sometimes I don’t correct them because I am in a rush. Sometimes I’m not in the mood to explain. It feels awkward to stop and tell the story. Almost everyone asks why I changed my name. I’m not on Facebook. I have to do it face to face. My name change is an opportunity to talk about my gender identity. It is my choice how much to disclose. I usually give the minimalist butch answer. “I never liked being called Amy. It was too girly. I wanted to change my name to something I like and that fits me better.” A more accurate explanation is “I hated having a girl’s name because I never felt like I was a girl. I wanted to change my name to something more boyish. I like Jamie and it works for me.” This opens the door to more discussion. The honest answer is “I hated having a girl’s name because it was a constant and annoying reminder that I was female, but I never felt like I was a girl. Part of my process of accepting that I am transgender is changing my name. I’m trying to feel more comfortable in my own skin.” It is a privilege to have a choice. To tell or not to tell. I could live my own version of stealth, and not say anything. There is a part of me that hesitates to disclose that I am transgender. One-on-one is way harder than writing. It always comes down to shame. My shame of being transgender, and my shame of not transitioning. I worry about not being taken seriously because I am not on testosterone and not legally changing my gender marker. I worry about being viewed as confused, wishy-washy, conservative, and playing it safe. I’ve said I’m not transitioning, but as Donna keeps reminding me, that is not true. I am doing something, I am just not becoming a visible man. It is my so-called transition. I’m changing, but I’m not sure into what. Sometimes it feels like there is no wiggle room between being an adult man and an adult woman and sometimes it feels like I am lost in non-binary space, looking for terra firma. Most people assume I am a butch lesbian; a masculine woman. They see it as an act. They don’t understand why I can’t step out of it for an afternoon. For a meeting, for a wedding, or at the beach. They do not see the undertow that pulls me away from everything feminine, and the futility of trying to resist it. It took me years to accept that I could not fight it. I can’t embrace butch without embracing transgender. I need to be open about both. For my sake, and for Donna’s. Donna has started identifying as a partner of someone who is trans. Last week, when she told a friend of ours that we were on our way to the Dyke March, the friend replied “Oh, there are still Dykes? They haven’t all become men?” Donna was incensed, but not quick enough to challenge the remark. Next time, she said, she’s outing both of us. Note: Here is a link to the original 1920’s recording of Masculine Women & Feminine Men, the recording featured in the post photo. There is a fun drag/crossdressing slide show that accompanies the recording.      Authenticity butch disclosure Dyke March gender non-conforming genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary queer shame stealth transgender Transition Stealth and Disclosure  Gracie gets in the way during the photo shoot of my camp mementos. The summer I was seven was a perfect summer. I went to sleep away camp. My grandmother paid for it so that my mother could have the summer off; I was getting on my mother’s nerves. Saint George’s Camp for Girls was a traditional camp, run by the church that housed my brother’s Cub Scout troop.  My brother was going to the boy’s camp and I insisted that if he went I went. I didn’t want to be stuck at home with my mother. She did not know what to do with me. Sending us to camp was a lot of trouble for my mother. She had to buy trunks, sheets and blankets, sleeping bags, and camp uniforms. Labels had to be sewn into everything, including our socks and underwear. I’d never spent a night away from my parents. I’d never been allowed to pick out my own clothes. The camp uniform was a pair of navy blue shorts topped by a white T-shirt with “Saint George’s Camp” in large red letters across the chest. Campers were only required to wear uniforms for prayers and dinner, but I wore my camp uniform all the time. I was proud of it and liked it better than what my mother had packed for me. I also wore my New York Mets cap; I only removed it for meals, prayers, swimming, bathing, and sleeping. I learned to make my bed and fold my clothes; to keep my trunk clean and organized. I pretended I was in the army. I remember two wishes from that summer. I was in sitting in my bunk waiting for the rest period to end so I could go swimming, and I wished that I had a pair of navy blue swim trunks and a hairy chest. I was getting dressed in the morning and I wished I could wear my camp uniform to school and never have to wear a dress again. I got to swim in the river, shoot arrows at targets, make lanyards, and practice riflery. The rifles were real. The counselors made us follow all the safety rules on the rifle range. Campers practiced one at a time, lying down on a wooden platform. I braced the rifle, concentrated to line up the scope with the target, and pulled the trigger. I was a good shot, and earned a Pro-Marksman. When I cleaned out my mom’s apartment, I found the certificate on a plaque in a closet. Camp was the first thing that I was good at. I was brave, I didn’t whine, I didn’t miss my mother. I liked swimming, I liked getting dirty, and I loved riflery. The counselors liked me, and let me tag along with them. I went back home and entered third grade. The girls teased me for being a tomboy. They knocked my Mets cap off my head and played keep-away with it. Mrs. Crawford told me to cross my legs at the ankle and act like a lady. I was miserable. No uniforms. No guns. I went back to camp the next year, but it was different. I was different. Something was off. Perfection eluded me and I never regained it. I keep my camp blanket on the foot of my bed; the label still securely sewn into the corner. I use it to remind myself that perfection is possible. I once experienced it. I could experience it again. Note: Despite my early exposure to the joys of shooting, I believe in gun control, and keeping guns out of the hands of children. When I hear a news report of a kid shooting a parent, I feel a pang of empathy for the kid. I remember being abused and angry. It is a good thing that when I got home I could not get my hands on a gun.   Authenticity bullying butch Camp childhood competency genderqueer lesbian queer summer trans* transgender vacation A Perfect Summer  Michelangelo’s David I am still in top surgery purgatory. Purgatory implies hope and patience. Donna is slowly reconciling herself to my having surgery. I’m trying not to pressure her because I don’t want to sabotage her efforts to come around to it on her own. I’ve tried to take a break from thinking about top surgery, but I can’t. I’ve got the money, I’ve got a doctor, but I don’t want to proceed until Donna says she can handle it, or is willing to try. She mentioned the end of the year. I mentally put the Prosecco on ice. Meanwhile, nipples are on my mind. I am obsessed with chests. I chest gazed while on vacation. Italian men take more care with their appearance than American men do. They wear their dress shirts, T-shirts, and polo shirts tighter. They show more. I’m not attracted to men, but the Italian men are very attractive.  I’m used to having a flat chest from wearing a binder, but it is an undefined and schlumpy chest. I’ve thought that I will look the same (dressed) after top surgery as I do wearing a binder, but that is not true. I will look similar. Less up top, a more noticeable midriff. I accept that I will never have David’s chest and abdomen. I will have a middle-aged jelly belly. My nipples could show through my T-shirts. I could end up with moobs. Some guys wear undershirts to keep their shirts clean and to absorb sweat. It also smooths out the chest. I’ve tried to make sure that my button-down shirts are loose, opaque, and thick enough not to show a bra or binder. Until now, I’ve never given much thought to what I’d wear under them if I got top surgery.  Or how I would feel going out in a T-shirt, with nothing on underneath. It is acceptable for men’s nipples to bump out of a shirt, but it is a no-no for women’s. Bra’s cover and de-emphasize nipples. Sports bra and swimsuit descriptions are full of text reassuring the buyer that there is no show through. Even when it is cold. If you are “perky” there are products you can buy to cover your nipples. NipGuards are marketed for men;  they reduce chafing while running, but are also used for nipple camouflage for men who are self-conscious. Dr Weiss tries to keep the nipple attached (pedicle preservation) during double incision surgery, as an alternative to nipple grafts. His goal is a natural looking chest with full sensation. My goal is to be free of my breasts. Will I be self-conscious if my nipples are visible? I’m butch, I’m used to breaking fashion rules. I’m not self conscious about having hairy legs and armpits. I justify not shaving by claiming that body hair is natural. Shaving is barbaric; a way to make women buy razors and depilatories. The truth is that I don’t shave my body because it is something girls do. I won’t have a pithy explanation for why I am getting top surgery. I am going to have to tell the truth. I don’t like my breasts, they never felt like they belonged on me, and I hope I will feel more comfortable in my own body without them. Note: For anyone who wants detailed information on top surgery,  Neutrois Nonsense has several excellent detailed posts on choosing a surgeon, types of surgery, preparation and recovery. Gentleman’s Gazette has a good history of undershirts, and some discussion of the pro’s and con’s of wearing one.   Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch butch body image dysphoria envy genderqueer lgbt nipples non-binary queer top surgery transgender Nipplemania  Verace Pizza Napoletana at Sorbillo in Naples. What do you think of when you think of Italy? I think of pizza. Donna and I rambled around the southernmost part of Italy for three weeks. It is a pizza culture. Verace Pizza Napoletana. I had to get over it looking skimpy by American standards. Before I left New York I made a list of the best pizzerias in Naples. I wanted to make sure that I ate in at least one of them. The last day of the trip, the last pizza we ate in Italy, we went to Sorbillo. It was a late lunch. It was a delicious pizza. Charred floppy crust with a touch of tomato sauce and small chunks of fior di latte (cow’s milk mozzarella), a few pieces of basil. All the pizza we had in Italy was good – pizza with olives, pizza with artichokes, pizza with mushrooms, pizza with salami (an indulgence for Donna). The pizza at Sorbillo was a notch better. I would have been happy just ordering pizza margherita (classic), but Donna likes a little something extra. To make it special. It used to bother me. I grew up eating New York pizza. Plain pizza. By the slice for lunch; by the pie for dinner. Until I went away to college I’d never ordered a pizza with a topping. My parents told me it was a rip-off; why pay all that extra money for a few slices of pepperoni. It was an unnecessary extravagance. Plain pizza was honest pizza. My parents were tight with money and not interested in making things special. They did not try to make me feel special. Donna does. If something can be tweaked to make it a little better, Donna wants to do it. Italy is full of opportunities for a little more pleasure. Full of ways to make life a little lighter and tastier. In Italy I did not notice any hostility towards my gender ambiguity, just mild curiosity. I was an American puzzle. No one seemed annoyed that they had to figure me out. They were willing to play along. There were a lot of visible queers. They didn’t give me the butch nod; they gave me an up and a down and a smile and a big buongiorno. Maybe they do this for everyone, but it felt special for me. It is possible that I missed the Italian nuances. It is possible that I didn’t understand people’s reactions. But for three weeks I didn’t notice any gender friction at all. It was a relief; I started my trip at Kennedy Airport by being read as male by the TSA agents, and then being called back and put through the X-ray machine a second time as female. They were grumpy, like I tried to pull a fast one. They patted me down. Very thoroughly. In Italy everyone greets everyone with a big buongiorno. The last time we travelled in Italy, in 1997, Donna and I were chastised by the owner of an antiques store in Taormina. “Americans are so rude.” he said. “When you come into my shop you should greet me and say buongiorno or buona sera, but you should not ignore me.” We apologized. It was a good lesson, although the delivery was obnoxious. This time, as soon as we could make eye contact, we offered a warm buongiorno. To everyone. Everywhere. Including the hostess at Sorbillo. At 2:30 P.M. there was a line. She was keeping a list of names and calling them out when a table was ready. She remembered us. We never saw Italians share a pizza. We never saw an Italian finish a pizza. The pizza was about 13 inches in diameter and it hung over the edge of the plate. Even the big burly guys left something, as if it were an affront to the pizzaiolo to eat the whole thing. Some Italians ate 3/4, some 1/2, some ate only the inside and left the crust intact in a circle, some picked randomly at the pizza but ate all the toppings. No one asked the customer if everything was OK; the waiter eyed the table and asked “Posso?” and then cleared away the detritus. At most pizzerias, Donna and I shared a pizza and a salad, but it felt gauche. We knew we were breaking the rules. I worried about having bad manners more than I worried about being judged for being butch or transgender. At Sorbillo they only serve pizza, no salad. We each ordered our own. I ate 2/3 of my pie and was so stuffed I couldn’t eat dinner. It killed me to leave that pizza on my plate. I loved the burnt pieces of crust. I loved the soggy inner center. I knew I’d never get to eat that pizza again. But I put down my fork and my knife and pretended I was a big burly Italian guy. Someday, there will be another pizza. Oven at Pompeii, circa 79 AD. Note: While in Naples I took the train to see the ruins of Pompeii and Herculaneum. While walking around Pompeii I saw this oven. It looks like a classic pizza oven, circa 79 AD.      Authenticity butch genderqueer Italy lesbian Naples Napoli Pizza Pompeii queer Sorbillo transgender travel wanderlust Wanderlust    Avenue H Station, Brighton Line. The rocking chairs are real, but I will not be sitting in one. I put in my papers to take early retirement from New York City Transit. I’m embarrassed to write that sentence because I barely feel like an adult, much less one eligible to collect a pension. Six years ago, right before July 4th weekend, my boss called me into his office to tell me I was being involuntarily re-assigned. While he was talking I started thinking about retiring. The demotion caught me by surprise. I had gotten myself into trouble with the President of NYCT; he was making unreasonable demands of my unit (Subway Schedules). I patiently explained why I disagreed with him. I was respectful and on-point. I did not defer to him, but I was not insubordinate. We took an immediate dislike to each other. My queerness did not help matters. I thought I was safe because I was three levels down the management chain. Usually, Presidents only sack their direct reports, or one level below. They don’t go after technical/professional staff. This was personal. It was ugly. He wanted to make an example out of me. He put a bobble-head in a suit in my place. The guy knew nothing about trains, but knew how to say yes like he meant it. In private industry I would have been fired. In Transit they send you to Siberia (Maspeth Electrical Shop) and change your regular days off and tour of duty to ensure that you are miserable. It was classified as a non-disciplinary personnel move without cause. I told my boss that if he sent me to Maspeth and needed me to answer a question I would have “no recollection” of anything, but I would support the department if I was  given a satisfactory assignment. He perked up and asked me what I wanted to do, We were starting a project to change over our train and crew scheduling software from a home-brew 1983 Fortran/DOS based program to a state-of-the-art customized scheduling system. We were still in the design and contract phase. I told him I’d head that project up. I could still play with schedules, but under the radar. Last year we implemented the new system. I know it inside out. I kept hoping that somehow I would redeem myself and get my old job back. I kept up my end of the bargain, but (no offense to Gracie) I stayed in the managerial doghouse. It was humiliating. I went into a deep funk.  I blamed myself for the demotion. If I hadn’t been so stubborn, if I had paid more attention to the dynamics, if I had accepted the policy changes without questioning them, if I had tried to protect my job, then maybe I would have weathered it through. I felt bitterly uncomfortable at work. My self-consciousness flared up. I withdrew from my colleagues and from political work. My butch armour started to crack. I felt vulnerable and fragile. I was cranky and prickly. I started to remember bits and pieces of my childhood; disjointed and random moments. Moments of being excluded and ostracized. Moments of abuse and of shutting down. I felt like I like I was going to either implode or explode. I wrote about finally admitting that I was not a girl here, but until recently I didn’t connect the trauma of being demoted to the process of accepting being transgender. The shock and disruption allowed me to wake up and pay attention to who I am. I am still angry about the demotion, but I am glad to have tackled the issues that came up after it. The good news is I get to cash-out my unused sick time, collect a pension I can live on, hold onto a 401K/457 to hedge against inflation, and I keep my health benefits. The same boss who told me I was being demoted is scrambling to get me an ethics waiver so I can consult on a per-diem basis (capped at 50 days per year). No one else understands the scheduling system the way that I do. If it comes through I’ll still be able to play with train schedules, but I’ll have time to do a whole lot more. Note: The first thing on the agenda is for us to take a three week trip to southern Italy (archeological ruins, medieval hill towns, and beaches). The trip is being paid for with the sick time cash-out (the rest goes into my 401K/457, and some is put aside for “medical expenses”). I won’t be posting while I am away; it will probably be about a month until I post.  Authenticity bullying butch demotion genderqueer lesbian queer retirement transgender work Not the Retiring Kind  Now I like to cook, but when I was three I refused to play house. I first knew I was in trouble when I was three. I went on a play date and there was nothing in her room that I wanted to play with. She offered me a set of plastic vegetables and I thought they were the dumbest and most unappealing toys ever. She had dolls. She wanted to play house. I wanted to get out of there but I could not say why. I picked up a plastic tomato and threw it on the floor. I refused to play with her, and was not invited back. I was not gracious about it. I turned into a quiet tomboy because it was easier to be quiet than to try to explain what I was thinking. I was a loner because It was easier to play by myself than to explain how I wanted to play. I knew I would be teased by the girls and I knew I would be shunned by the boys. I did not try to fit in with either. I never learned how to hang out with kids my own age. I was discouraged, or forbidden, to play with my brother’s toys because I was a girl. When I asked why, the answers made no sense. Once I realized that “you can’t do that because you’re a girl” was a lie, I refused to obey. I didn’t want to try to like what girls were supposed to like. I developed crushes on girls and women. I didn’t correct adults when I they called me young man, or son, or buddy. I didn’t break rules because I thought it was the right thing to do. I didn’t do it to be subversive. I did it because it was less painful than pretending to be normal. Once you question what clothes you should wear, what games you should play, what books you should read, what toys you should like, what TV programs you should watch, and what teenage idols you should pine for, you are ready to question every other pre-packaged “choice” that comes your way. Bonnie and Clyde, photo from the Lesbian Herstory Archives The first time I saw other butches I was a senior in high school. I had a fake ID and I was ordering a rum and coke in Bonnie and Clyde. As soon as stepped into the bar, I realized that those butches played by rules as rigid as the rules followed by the girls in the playground at P.S. 40. It was a rough crowd. I didn’t know how to look cool or strike a nonchalant pose. I didn’t want to shoot pool or watch others play. I was a nerdy nervous kid without an ounce of toughness. I didn’t know how to hang out in a bar. I knew I’d never be like the bar butches. I was right. I’ve never been good at pretending. I’m not going to adopt a particular butch style or transgender narrative so I can claim one as an identity or meet a medical criteria. I don’t believe that there is a definitive way to be a girl, or butch, or queer, or genderqueer, or transgender. I will probably always feel that I am caught somewhere between butch and transgender, somewhere on the border line. Note: While looking fruitlessly for pictures of the bar Bonnie and Clyde, I found the website Lost Womyn’s Space, and I ran across a couple of interesting articles about lesbian bars. Here are the links: Bars in L.A. in the 1950’s and 15 Awesomely Named Lesbian Bars,  Authenticity Bonnie and Clyde butch Gender genderqueer growing up lesbian lesbian bars queer tomboy transgender Bonnie and Clyde  Winter is finally over. I am shedding my winter layers. I am molting like a snake. Any day now it will be warm enough to walk around in jeans and a T-shirt. The pear trees are flowering. I got caught in a sudden rain shower that cleared as fast as it started. Afterwards, I smelled the warm wet sidewalk. It is a summer smell. I am not ready for summer. It is impossible to accurately explain body dysphoria to someone who never had it. Each time I catch a glimpse of myself I expect to see someone else. My dysphoria is visual. My dysphoria is dissociative. I’ve learned I can manage it by keeping my hair short, wearing masculine clothes, de-emphasizing my breasts, and avoiding mirrors and reflective surfaces. I’ve learned I can manage it by avoiding bathrooms, locker rooms, dressing rooms, gendered spaces. I have expended a lot of energy manging my dysphoria, but it won’t go away. I look in the mirror and I can’t line myself up with the image reflected back at me. When I see pictures of myself I don’t see myself, I only see someone who I can identify as me, but really isn’t me. Donna tries to take pictures of me on the sly. She knows if I stop and pose the result will be false; a picture of someone else. At its most benign, my dysphoria is grating. It is like chewing your salad and coming across a grain of sand. Some days my dysphoria is disruptive and dangerous, as if I am walking down Madison Avenue naked. I panic and I want to hide, but everyone can see what is wrong with me. There are days when I try to get dressed and everything looks wrong and feels wrong. When I change my shirt four times and still don’t want to go out. When I feel self-conscious and critical. When everything feels fake and nothing feels authentic. When the only thing that works is to break out the flannel and dress like a boy. I’ve managed my dysphoria using the medical model of “primum non nocere” which translates as “First, do no harm.” In practice, it means that sometimes it is better to do nothing, or to do as little as possible, than to risk causing more harm than good. I talked about my dysphoria in therapy. I modified my wardrobe so I don’t wear stuff I don’t like. I legally changed my name. I experimented with sports bras and binders to find an everyday comfortable solution (double design co. purchased from Les Love Boat in Taiwan). I inched incrementally sideways. I have not done anything medical. Is it possible for me to stop managing my dysphoria and to embrace it, as I embrace being butch and being transgender? Can I learn to live with it because it is a part of me? Can I acknowledge it and let it go, take away its power, render it harmless? Or is that futile? Should I try to exorcise my dysphoria?  Would top surgery defang it forever? That is the $11,000 question. I’ve tried to get by. As if I deserved to survive, but am not entitled to be made whole. I’ve never asked myself what being made whole would mean. It is too big and too open-ended a question.      Body Image and Clothing authenticity body dysphoria body image butch Gender genderqueer lesbian queer top surgery transgender Managing My Dysphoria  By the time you read this post, Donna and I will be on a direct flight from New York to Venice. It is a trip we planned to take last year, to celebrate her recovery from open heart surgery, but cancelled when she broke her ankle. Right now, the trip is more of a challenge than a celebration. Donna has less energy than she would like, and is anxious about walking long distances. We are both a little apprehensive about the little packets of testosterone left behind in my sock drawer, but we are going to try to not think about them while we are away. Almost as soon as we became lovers, Donna tried to get me to go on vacation with her. At first I resisted. I didn’t understand her desire to travel, and it was expensive. She persisted. I was so infatuated with Donna, and felt so lucky to be with her, that I gave in. Venice was the first place we went to together. I don’t remember why we chose Venice, but I was smitten.  I’m excited that we are finally, after over 30 years, going back to Venice, together. I prepped for the first trip by reading guidebooks and regional cookbooks. I went to a store in Little Italy and brought home the cheeses and cured meats of the Veneto. I drank only northern Italian wines for months before we left. I read Italian novels and learned to count in Italian to 100,000 (before the Euro there were 1400 lira to the dollar). I didn’t want to look like, or act like, the stereotypical crass American tourist. I didn’t want to embarrass Donna. I didn’t want her to wake up and realize that getting into a relationship with me was a big mistake. That first trip wasn’t all romance and pleasure, although there was quite a bit of both. It was marred by my dysphoria, and by my shame at being overweight and butch and a bit dowdy. Everyone in Italy looked sophisticated and elegant. I felt OK when I was out with Donna, but I had a panic attack every time I went out by myself for a walk. To comfort myself, I went to the best gelaterie and pasticcerie. For most of the time that we’ve been together I lived with the fear that Donna would leave me. I was afraid that she’d figure out that I really wanted to be a boy, or she’d understand why I couldn’t tolerate seeing my reflection in the mirror. I kept expecting that I would outgrow those feelings or that being in a loving relationship would make them go away. I kept hoping that I’d never have to talk to her about it. When I finally told her, it nearly wrecked our relationship. I prepped for this trip by reading up on Venetian history and architecture. I drank some Italian wine and researched restaurants and food markets. One night I blew it by blurting out to Donna that I had filled a prescription for low dose testosterone. It was bad timing that my semi-annual appointment at Callen-Lorde was so close to our departure date. I hadn’t talked to Donna about my ambivalence about going on testosterone for a while, and it upset her that I sprang it on her right before the trip. Not that there would have been a good way. She was afraid I’d take it and turn into the werewolf of Venice. I had to talk her through her fears of who I might become, and remind her that I am her Jamie. This trip I am not afraid that Donna will leave me. I’m not expecting to have panic attacks when I go out by myself. I’m comfortable in my body and my clothes. I’m hoping that we can fit in a little romance and a little pleasure and a little gelato and remember that we love each other. Note: We will be gone for over three weeks – I doubt I’ll be posting again until the end of October. Besides Venice, we are going to Ravenna, and then driving around Le Marche and Umbria. Since all roads lead to Rome, we are dropping our car off and flying back from Rome. This is my post from last year, right after Donna broke her ankle and I cancelled the trip.        Authenticity butch Gender genderqueer low dose testosterone non-binary queer transgender travel Venice The Werewolf of Venice  Donna and I went to see Casa Valentina, the new Harvey Fierstein play. We saw it in previews, so this is not a review. The play is set during a spring weekend in the 1960’s, at a resort in the Catskills that caters to men who cross-dress. There once was a real place called Casa Susanna. It turns out that I have a lot in common with the guys who went there. The real life patrons of Casa Susanna; found photographs. Before I knew the words homosexual, deviant, gay, lesbian, butch, queer, or transgender, I cross-dressed. As often as I could get away with it. I did it as early as nursery school, refusing to put on a dress and insisting on wearing blue. I was a stubborn kid. I put on my brother’s clothes. Including his underwear. I had a separate male persona. In cross-dressing circles there is a lot of discussion about whether the cross-dresser is transgender or an otherwise normal heterosexual guy who just likes to dress en femme. There are distinctions made between straight men who sometimes wear women’s clothing and gay men who do drag. There is an organization, Tri-Ess, dedicated to providing safe spaces for heterosexual men to cross-dress. They have a bill of rights for both cross-dressers and their partners (wives). It is a bit of a 1960’s throwback.  Casa Valentina explores what it means for each guest to have a haven, where they can dress en femme for the weekend. It shows their ambivalence at presenting male, and the pleasure and freedom they experience in dropping the pretense and letting their feminine side “out” in company. It is about the price of suppressing one’s gender and one’s sexuality; of having a secret other life. Weegee. Lesbians in NYC in 1946. It is relatively easy for me to cross-dress in my ordinary life. Butch lesbians wear men’s clothing all the time. I don’t think of it as drag or being en homme. I think of it as being me. It is much easier (in contemporary American culture) for women to go out in men’s clothing than for men to go out in women’s clothing. This was not always the case; in New York there were laws on the books that cross-dressing was illegal unless the person wore at least three pieces of gender appropriate clothing. The law was invoked when the police raided clubs or bars. It applied to both men and women, There was a time when I tried to wear women’s dress pants and blouses to work. I hated it. I looked ridiculous, and I reverted to men’s or at least man-tailored attire. If I always had to wear “real” women’s clothing when I left the house, even slacks and a blouse, I would probably commit suicide. Or become a recluse. I don’t think I could compartmentalize being butch into a weekend only thing. Like men who cross-dress, I have periodically tried to give up cross-dressing and go “normal”, but I can’t. I purged my most masculine outfits when I thought I should make an effort to find women’s clothing that looked good and fit properly. I purged my most feminine clothes when I realized that I would not wear them, that I feel miserable when I think about wearing them, and that I can not expect myself to wear them. The transgender undertow repeatedly pulls me back to the masculine shore. For my own comfort I should stay there. The transgender undertow is the subject of the second half of Casa Valentina. It is increasingly hard for the main character (and owner of Casa Valentina) George/Valentina to maintain a split life. Fortunately for me, there is no split. I no longer have a secret male persona. I may be living on the border of butch and transgender, but I am living as Jamie, no matter which way I go. Note: The play opened to mixed reviews – here is a link to the review in The New York TImes, which I think is accurate.   Butch Or Trans? authenticity Broadway butch Casa Valentina cross dressing genderqueer Harvey Fierstein lesbian lgbt queer theater transgender Casa Valentina  Not my closet…but this is as close as I could get to what she looked like. She was in full young professional drag. A skirt suit and pumps. A look of panic flashed across her face. She started to turn around to walk out of the bathroom, and then turned around and gave me a long hard look. She didn’t say anything. She walked past me, entered a stall and closed the door. Because I was already inside the women’s restroom, she assumed she had made the mistake. When she realized that she was in the right place, she gave me the contempt stare. I washed my hands and took a good look at myself in the mirror. I tried to see what she saw. Short hair, rimless glasses. A pink Oxford button down shirt open at the neck (with a binder underneath), black jeans. A black belt with an oval pewter buckle, black leather chukkas. If I were a guy, I’d look like I paid attention to what I was wearing. All I saw was a middle-aged butch. I don’t know what she expected, but our office does not have a dress code. My version of business casual is very casual, and masculine. I do not wear anything to signify that I am female. There were none of the expected clues, the three or four things that make the difference between being read as male or as female (hair style, accessories, demeanor). She felt entitled to look me over. She expected me to apologize; I didn’t. It was her problem. I was caught off-guard because that is my “safe” bathroom at work. It is the one closest to my cubicle. All the women who work on the floor know me. I’ve never had a problem in there before. This woman was an outsider. I belonged there. When I’m out with Donna I use her as my cover. I get on line right behind her. I still get stared at, but being with a woman gives me credibility. I’ve never been challenged when I’m with Donna. I have a handful of safe bathrooms that I use when I am alone. I try not to use unfamiliar ones when I am out. I look for branches of Starbuck’s and my gym (New York Sports Club) because they have single stall (gender neutral) restrooms in most locations. It is insanely difficult to find a bathroom in New York even if you are gender normative, and when you do, there is usually (for women) a line. Lines give me the heebie-jeebies. I’ve had my share of ugly incidents. The worst was in the Houston airport, when a woman screamed so loud that security came running in and asked me for ID. When I’ve been told “This is the Ladies Room” I’ve replied gently, to put the challenger at ease. I’ve reigned in my sarcasm and my anger. This last incident changed how I feel. I want to turn it around. I want to ask “Why did you say that?” or tell them “I belong here.” Although I continue to look for gender neutral bathrooms, I think it is the wrong tactic. I don’t believe in separate but equal. I don’t want to wander around looking for the trans* equivalent of the Colored bathroom. I don’t want to avoid the cisgendered one because I might make one of “them” uncomfortable. What has to happen for that young professional to accept that I belong in “her” restroom? For her to believe that there is nothing wrong with a genderqueer, butch, or transgender woman using a woman’s bathroom? I’m tired of carving out safe spaces. I’m tired of being stared at or commented upon. I’m over worrying whether my presence makes strangers uncomfortable. It is time for them to get over it too.  Body Image and Clothing bathroom butch Gender genderqueer ladies room lesbian queer restroom transgender women's room This is the Ladies Room  We were slaves to Pharaoh in Egypt. The first night of Passover is next Monday. Donna and I are having eight friends over for seder. It is a feminist seder with an alternative Haggadah. I’m sorting through my recipes to decide what to cook. I’m sorting through how I am going to relate to being a transgender butch reading a lesbian-feminist Haggadah. Second night seder is at BC and Ruth’s. It is a queer seder, with a lot of people I know from AIDS activism. I am more relaxed at it because I am not cooking. I bring one dish, home brined pickled salmon. It is easy to make; I just have to remember to start it five days in advance. The Sinai Desert – Wikipedia The Haggadah includes the retelling of the story of the Exodus. The story of Moses leading the Jews out of slavery, out of Egypt. It about their hesitation to leave, their doubts, and their impatience while wandering in the desert in search of the promised land. The rituals of Passover require us to experience Passover as if we personally went out of Egypt. It reminds us that liberation and transformation are possible. It reminds us that we are in the diaspora; we are still in the desert. I am still searching for a place for myself within the Jewish tradition. I don’t want to make Aliyah to Israel or claim a birthright. I hated the gender rigidity of my synagogue and the language in the prayer-book. Yet I continue to experience myself as Jewish (cultural and culinary) despite distancing myself from mainstream Judaism and the state of Israel. A few years ago, at second night seder, Richard challenged us to think about leaving our own Egypt. To whom, or to what, am I a slave? What does it mean to be free? From whom am I fleeing? Where am I trying to go? These are questions I’ve struggled with all year. My Egypt is not the Egypt of my ancestors; my Jerusalem is not an occupied city in contemporary Israel. My Egypt is my shame. The shame of being a girl who wants to be a boy. The shame of being picked on and unpopular, The shame of being fat and ugly. The shame of hiding my pain while struggling to be an adult. The shame of being butch and wearing men’s clothes. The shame of my breasts, my curves, my weight. The shame of dysphoria. The shame of being a freak. The shame of feeling like a fraud. The shame of being a masculine woman. The shame of being transgender. The shame of being stared at and pointed at. The shame of being me. There are days when I barely sense the shame, and go about my business as if everything is fine. There are days when I am paralyzed by some aspect of it. I struggle to hide my shame, because, of course, I am ashamed of my shame. I am trying to slowly loosen myself from its grip. My ancestors crossed the Red Sea with only the clothes on their back. They did not stop to rest, make camp, or bake bread. I am also on an unpredictable journey with no map and an unknown destination. I hope I won’t wander for another forty years. I hope I will recognize the promised land when I get there. The traditional seder ends with the saying “Next year in Jerusalem”. Next year I hope to be in my own Jerusalem, wherever that may be. I hope that Donna and Gracie will both be there with me. Note: While thinking about this post I re-read S. Bear Bergman’s essay on shame. You can find it in his book The Nearest Exit May Be Behind You.  Authenticity body image butch dysphoria Gender genderqueer Jewish leaving egypt lesbian passover queer seder shame transgender Leaving Egypt  Just when I thought I had finally worked off the weight I put on between Thanksgiving and New Years, just when I was shaking off the end of winter sluggishness, just when I had dreams of spring asparagus and Alphonso mangos, Girl Scout Cookie season arrived. I hate Girl Scout Cookies.  I hate everything about them. I bought four boxes at four bucks a pop because my office mates sold them for their daughters. My policy is to comply with most forms of work place extortion. I buy something (magazine subscriptions, crappy chocolates, raffle tickets) from everyone in the office who asks; I don’t want to be accused of being cheap or playing favorites. According to the Girl Scouts, they sell 200 million boxes of cookies each year. Hundreds of them end up in my office. There are open boxes of cookies everywhere. For weeks. I can not get away from them. And, like a perverse version of the kid’s game Go For Broke, I have to get rid of my boxes without eating anyone else’s cookies. This year I have zero tolerance. I am not going to eat a single one. There was a time (two years ago) when I ate the cookies. I trolled the maze of cubicles looking for them. Thin Mints, Do-si-dos, Tagalongs, Trefoils, Samoas. If there were cookies out there I was going to find them and have one. Or two. I bought a half-dozen boxes and ate a sleeve of cookies at my desk. A box never lasted more than two days. I wasn’t into sharing, I was into numbing the pain. Since being on Weight Watchers my attitude has changed; or maybe my attitude changed and I went to Weight Watchers. I don’t want to be chubby. I don’t want to stuff my face. I don’t want to swallow down my feelings. I’m at a good weight and I want to keep a boyish figure. I don’t want to be sabotaged by a bunch of happy girls in green uniforms selling hydrogenated crud that doesn’t even taste good. The pictures on the Girl Scout Cookie boxes represent everything that I hated about girls and tried to avoid. Whenever I was with a  group of girls, I was picked on. When they looked at me they saw a fat awkward tomboy and a target. When I look at the cookie boxes I see my tormentors. I knew enough to find after school activities that minimized my chances of being bullied. Music school was the best because it did not require getting undressed, picking teams, or wearing skirts, leotards, or tutus. There was very little socializing and a lot of music. I also took a couple of cooking classes at the YMHA. I learned how to bake pareve kosher cookies using margarine (Girl Scout Cookies are certified kosher, but dairy). I learned how to make fruit salad out of fresh fruit instead of opening up a can. I’m not a big baker. I have three go-to cookies that are way better than Girl Scout Cookies. Baking and cooking are not gendered activities for me. I feel my best butch-transgender self in the kitchen. I make full butter versions of gingersnaps and oatmeal raisin cookies from an old annotated copy of The Joy of Cooking, and I make a dark chocolate chunk cookie based on the Nestle Toll House recipe (but with better chocolate). If you want to be the hit of a pot-luck party, bring homemade chocolate chip cookies. You will be invited back. There are no mass-produced cookies that are worth the calories (or Weight Watchers points) to me anymore, with the possible exception of Tate’s Original Chocolate Chips. A good homemade cookie, that is a different story. One I will make an exception for.  Body Image and Clothing baking body image butch cookies Diet genderqueer Girl Scout Cookies Girl Scouts lesbian queer transgender Weight Watchers Why I Hate Girl Scout Cookies  This week I was happy that I have a dog. Happy to have an excuse to take a walk and go up to the dog run. Dogs don’t think you are a freak. Dogs don’t need to talk everything out. I would say that dogs are simple, but Gracie is quirky. I’ve had her for over six years, and I still think of her as my “new” dog. I’ve watched Gracie, I’ve studied her, I’ve paid a lot of attention to her. I don’t completely get her. We are not a perfect match; but we are good enough.  Gracie is a black border collie mix. Her face is hard to read. I’ve learned to watch her ears. She has beautiful soft fluffy ears that usually fly at half mast. When they are relaxed and bouncy, she is content. When they are laid back flat against her head, she is happy. When they swivel sideways, she is tentative. When they perk up, she is alert or anxious. When they perk up and the tips fold over and point rigidly forward then she is about to do something that I will regret. I try to correct her before she reacts. Sometimes she is too fast for me. My first dog, Lena, developed good manners and street smarts. Gracie still acts like a rural rube. Gracie does not differentiate between people who are odd and people who might actually be a threat. She wants to bark at construction workers carrying tool boxes, homeless people looking for cans to redeem, and runners in spandex tights. She will obey me if I tell her ahead of time to hush, but she may have a histrionic outburst if I am not paying attention or if I don’t see it coming. I’ve made a lot of apologies on her behalf. I’m one of those dog owners who says “sorry, she’s really not a bad dog” after Gracie has, without warning, lunged like a lunatic or barked her head off. Sometimes she embarrasses me. I get over it as soon as she rubs up against me. Lena was happy if one part of her body touched one part of mine. She’d curl up with me on the couch, put her head on my leg, and let me read in peace. Gracie likes to come up on the couch, but she insists that I put my book down. She gets annoyed If I pet her with one hand and read with the other. I have to focus on her, admire her, service her. She is into mindfulness. She does not like me to multi-task. I don’t read as much as I used to. Gracie is perfectly content in her body. She knows what she likes. She has soft belly hair and tiny nipples. We both like it when I stroke her belly from her vulva to her chest, stopping for a light scratch at the top. She lies still, eyes closed, mouth open. When I stop, she squirms and sneezes. taps her tail against the cushion, and waves her paws in the air; she wants more. She is a pleasure hound. I continue to pet her. I forget about reading. My brain quiets down. I lose track of the time, my sadness, my dysphoria. We are both mesmerized. A boy and her dog.    Doggerel authenticity border collie butch butch lesbians and their dogs dysphoria genderqueer lesbian mutts rescue dogs transgender Gracie Saves the Day  The feminist who came up with the pro-choice chant “Our Bodies, Our Lives, Our Right to Decide” was probably not thinking about transgender butch lesbians contemplating top surgery. That slogan has been this week’s mantra. It has been a hell of a week. I’ve struggled to understand why “suddenly” top surgery has become important to me. A few weeks back Donna told me to go ahead and start looking into it. She doesn’t like the idea of surgery, and when she stepped aside, I took it as a good sign. I made an appointment for a consultation with a surgeon in New York (Dr. Paul Weiss). Donna came with me. We liked him; he has no issues performing surgery on someone who is not on T and is not transitioning to male. We talked about nipple placement and keeping the nipple attached instead of grafting it back on. We went through his photo book. I was able to visualize my chest. And then it hit me. It was my chest that I was seeing. It was the chest I used to have, the one I felt comfortable with and did not have to hide. I was not losing something I was getting something back. It is a loss for Donna. The loss hit her at the same time that the intensity of wanting surgery hit me. She feels that they are her breasts too. But they are not. They are mine. In a relationship everything becomes entangled. How do we balance her pain and my desire? Her attraction to me as person and to my body? The responsibility of one partner to another? The effect of one partner making a choice without the full support of the other? I examined my fears. I am afraid that I will end up with railroad track stitching across my chest, a pronounced belly, and dog ears on the sides. The consultation cleared that up. I am afraid that I will look ridiculous –  like Baby Huey, Porky Pig, or Elmer Fudd without his shirt on. I am afraid that Donna will not be able to handle it. She is also afraid. She doesn’t want to lose me, or my breasts. I don’t want to look like this: Baby Huey Or this: Porky Pig Or this: Elmer Fudd without his hunting outfit. When in doubt, consult Looney Tunes. Exactly what does Elmer Fudd look like topless? I discovered that the Motion Picture Production Code (Hays Code) was in effect during the “golden years” of cartoons. Although there are some very furry naked ducks and rabbits wandering around, a surprising number of anthropomorphized characters are either wearing tops (Donald Duck and Porky Pig) or bottoms (Mickey Mouse and Baby Huey). This post has a gallery of pages from an interesting 1939 Look magazine article on the cartoon code. Waiting for spring to come to the snowy northeast. By the mid-thirties, there were no animated characters with nipples, genitals, anuses, or belly buttons showing. Poor Flossie had to cover up her udder. The code remained in effect until the late 1950’s and was gradually eroded by the mid-sixties. If I am going to look ridiculous, it will be more like Homer Simpson than Elmer Fudd. The Looney Tunes cartoon “The Big Snooze” captures much of my dilemma. It is Elmer Fudd’s nightmare, including a break up with Bugs Bunny, multiple cliff falls, running around topless, and being put in a wig and a dress. Unlike real life, it solves its problems in seven minutes and it has a happy ending. It is also a hilarious cartoon, highly recommended. The link is here. Postscript: I wrote this post on Friday and Saturday. I cleaned it up and checked the links on Sunday. On Monday, Donna told me that she can not cope with my having top surgery. Today is Wednesday. I’m angry, I’m sad, and I’m putting surgery off because I do not know what else to do.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch butch body image butch lesbians feminism Gender genderqueer lesbian queer top surgery transgender Transition Our Bodies, Our Lives, Our Right to Decide  Another frigid morning in lower Manhattan. The priest from St. Paul’s stood on the corner of Church and Vesey. He was giving out ashes. The crowd came up from the subway, heads down, moving fast, checking their phones. A woman stopped, the priest said a prayer and made a cross on her forehead. She thanked him and moved away. I wondered if she was giving up meat for Lent. I’m not religious. I’m skeptical of epiphanies, but sometimes I envy the faithful. The closest I’ve come to an epiphany was in India. Donna and I were staying in a guesthouse in a quiet neighborhood in Jodhpur. A few boys were kicking around a soccer ball. We sat on a bench to watch them. A woman came out of her house with a tray of pea pods. She brushed them into the gutter and went back in. A cow came by and ate the pea pods. Then the cow came over and nudged me. I rubbed its nose and scratched its ears. We locked eyes. I thought “I wonder what it would be like to think of a cow as my equal or as a higher being.” As soon as I thought it, I knew I was going to have trouble eating beef. In Rajasthan, it was not a problem. In deference to the HIndu and Muslim communities, we were never offered beef or pork. I decided not to worry about it until I got back to New York. Each time I saw a cow on the street, I thought about my cow in Jodhpur. The morning after we get back from a big trip, Donna and I always go out for breakfast. We never go out for breakfast in our normal life; we go out so we can pretend we are still on vacation. Donna ordered fried eggs and bacon. I ordered pastrami and eggs. I took a couple of bites and told Donna “I don’t think I can do this.” Ten years later I’m still either a ovo-lacto vegetarian who occasionally eats fish, a pescatarian, or an omnivore who doesn’t eat meat and poultry. I’m not sure what to call myself. I know that sounds familiar. When I stopped eating meat I was shy about it; I didn’t know if it was permanent. I used to eat meat with great pleasure, and I was embarrassed to tell friends I’d given it up. It was a visceral decision, not an intellectual or moral one. It was based on one precocious cow. I don’t talk a lot about not eating meat. I’ve been criticized because it is inconsistent to eschew meat but eat dairy and fish. I’m not into purity. It isn’t a big deal to me. I don’t want to put anyone out. I am lucky to have food to eat. I’m shy about explaining that I am transgender but not transsexual. That there are contradictions between how I look and how I feel. That I’m not explicitly trying to be read as male, but I do not want to be seen as female. I’m hesitant to request third person singular pronouns, slow correcting people who use my old name, and tired of explaining dysphoria and defending top surgery. Friends from my meat eating days periodically ask “Are you still a vegetarian?” As if it is just a phase I’m going through and eventually I will come to my senses. As if they are still waiting for me to invite them over for a standing rib roast. A few have asked me if I still consider myself to be butch, and I tell them yes, but I am qualifying it with transgender. I don’t think they really believe me; they are waiting for me to move one way or the other. As if it is a phase I am going through and eventually I will come to my senses.  Authenticity ash wednesday butch genderqueer India lesbian meatless queer transgender travel vegetarian My Cow in Jodhpur  Photo by xakeshot on deviantART I can accept that I am butch and transgender, but I have trouble accepting that I will never be a boy. It should be obvious; I am chronologically an adult. I can’t time-travel backwards. It is unfair that I only got to be a child once, and that I went through it as a girl. No second chance. The adults tried to convince me that I should want to be a girl. That I should be happy I was a girl. I kept hoping I would morph into a boy. I refused to believe that body parts were destiny. I kicked and screamed and dragged my feet through childhood. I would not march willingly into the strange territory of teenage girls. I dug in my heels and hoped for a miracle. This is evidently how fetishes are made. One of mine is a sneaker fetish. I will not wear women’s sneakers. Every time I’ve bought a pair, no matter how plain they were, they ended up discarded at the back of the closet. I like men’s sneakers. I own a few pairs. Up to the age of eight, sneakers were simple. Cheap kid’s sneakers, and my parents were cheap, were for all kids. They were canvas, had round toes with rubber toe caps, and came in red, white, or navy blue. Once my feet hit a certain size, cheap sneakers diverged into boy’s or girl’s. The boy’s kept the rounded toes and had a larger rubber cap, and the girl’s sneakers had pointy toes and no rubber bumper. I was given the later. I hated them. I hated them as if they were pink with purple polka dots and glitter. I dragged my feet. On the swing, back and forth, over the pavement. Scraping where the rubber would have been. Grey smudges and holes. One pair, and then the replacement pair. My parents were cheap. The third pair were boy’s Converse All-Stars. They lasted until I grew out of them. They were replaced with a similar pair, one size larger. I took good care of them. Most of my problems did not have elegant solutions. I was unable to will myself into a boy; there were no miracles. I settled for being a tomboy. Adults expected me to step out of it and do things that boys would not do. I avoided and resisted as much as I could; the victories were few but memorable. I spent a lot of years in therapy tiptoeing around wanting to be a boy. Somehow, unexpectedly, I finally got out the words “I’m not a girl.” I had often said I didn’t want to be girl, but I’d never said I wasn’t one. A few months later I was sitting in my therapist’s office crying that I wanted to be a boy. Kathy looked up and said “You are never going to be a boy.” Even though I knew it was the truth, it made me angry. I was not ready to hear it. The eight year old in me had not given up hope. I was not raised, loved, and socialized as a boy. My history is looking, yearning, waiting, throwing tantrums, and conniving. I can not change my history. I used to believe that therapy would heal my childhood pain. It didn’t. I didn’t realize that mourning helps you live with the pain, not get over it. My lost boyhood will always be there, just out of my reach. I’m not happy about it, but I have stopped crying about it. Note: Bobbito Garcia’s book “Where’d You Get Those?” is a great history of NYC sneaker culture. It has just been re-issued.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity body image butch Gender Gender identity genderqueer lesbian queer sneakers therapy tomboy transgender Mourning a Lost Boyhood  Seabees, from the 2013 revival in Chicago Some of the worst moments of my mother’s life were the best moments of my life. I didn’t plan it that way. My sixth grade class at P.S. 40 performed the musical South Pacific. I can still sing some of the songs. It is a Rodgers and Hammerstein classic.  Some Enchanted Evening, I’m Gonna Wash That Man Right Outa My Hair, You’ve Got to Be Taught, and There Is Nothin’ Like a Dame. The play was considered progressive by New York City public school standards. It touched on war, race, and privilege without referencing Vietnam, the civil rights movement, or white flight. Subjects we did not discuss much at home or in school. Our class probably performed a sanitized and abridged version of it. When I listened to the original 1949 cast album some of the songs were unfamiliar. My memories of the play are sketchy. It was set on a island, there was a love story, one of the male characters had a scene where he wore a grass skirt and a coconut cup bikini top, and the play had a bittersweet ending. All I remember clearly is that I was a Seabee in the chorus. Original 1949 cast, the Thanksgiving Follies scene. I wanted to look like a real sailor, not like Mary Martin. Everyone in the class had to be cast in the play. Most of us ended up in the chorus, either as a nurse or as a sailor. Because I was a girl I was originally cast as a nurse, but I objected and requested to serve as a Seabee. I had short hair and already had the costume (blue jeans, a white T-shirt, and white canvas sneakers). It never hurts to ask for what you want, but you need to be prepared for the consequences. My request was granted. I was issued my Seabee hat, a classic “Dixie Cup“, and went off to practice with the boys. There were a lot of rehearsals for only one performance. I told my parents that I was in the chorus. The Dixie Cup hat was the prize. I always wanted to dress up as a sailor, and even though I was eleven, and a little old for it, I was game. I knew I was on the cusp of “womanhood”, but I still desperately wanted to be a boy. I practiced getting the tilt of the hat just right, like a real sailor. The afternoon of the performance I changed into my costume and adjusted my hat. I was the chubby kid in a Seabee outfit proudly and enthusiastically belting out “There ain’t a thing wrong with any man here, that can’t be cured by putting him near, a girly, womanly, female, feminine dame.” My mother had a meltdown at the party after the performance. “Why did they cast you as a sailor? Why were you the only child who didn’t have a solo line? What is wrong with you? Why didn’t you say something? How could you embarrass me this way?” We left before I got a piece of cake. It was true that I didn’t get to sing a solo, and it was true that I didn’t have any spoken lines. I wasn’t keeping track of who sang or spoke. All the class misfits were in the chorus. I was happy to be a Seabee and to be singing the truth.  Authenticity butch childhood Gender genderqueer lesbian memoir queer Rodgers and Hammerstein South Pacific transgender Some Enchanted Evening  According to my mother, who is dead, I’m a failure. Not just because I’m a sodomite. I’m a failure because I never married, never had kids, and didn’t earn a pile of money. Fortunately, my brother Jon hit the trifecta. My mother got grandchildren without my having to lift a finger or wear a skirt. “hard work is simply the refuge of people who have nothing whatever to do”  – Oscar Wilde For all her insistence that I act like a girl, she spent her whole life comparing me to my brother. Jon was popular. His report cards were upbeat and full of praise. He had ambition. Why couldn’t I be like him? My elementary school report cards noted that I was not living up to my potential. When I tried to be just like my brother I got in trouble for acting like a boy.  My mother was surprised when I was accepted into Hunter. Hunter College High School is a public school that admits students based on a competitive entrance exam. It was still an all girls school when I attended. “Hunter girls” were the best and the brightest. They were supposed to make their mark on the world.  Hunter expected you to study with passion. To research subjects with enthusiasm and diligence.  We were supposed to become doctors, lawyers, scientists, and professors. We looked down upon soap operas, romance novels, and teen magazines. When we were not studying we read English classics and watched French films. We were pretentious and pollyannaish.  I went to off to college, studied Civil Engineering, and got a job right out of school with the Transit Authority. I write subway schedules. It is an interesting job, with good pay, health benefits, and a pension. I’ve done a lot of queer political work, I write my blog. I’ve got a partner, Donna, and a dog, Gracie. Gracie leaves more of a mark on the world than I do. From the Hunter vantage point, I’m kind of a middling success. For perspective, one of my classmates (in Ms. Morello’s Politcal Theory class) was Elana Kagan. Elana was the dean of Harvard Law School and then became a Supreme Court Justice. The rest of the world was not as welcoming as Hunter. I came out and then I retreated. I lowered the bar because of my queerness. I set it at staying alive, refusing to ask for money from my mother, and refusing to compromise on my butchness. I did not expect to be happy. I did not expect to find a lot of pleasure in life. I did not believe that I deserved it. I worked hard. I closed down. I lost a part of myself. Sometimes I feel like I am waking up after a long hibernation. Donna and Gracie have been waiting for this; not always patiently. I can’t answer why it took so long. I just know I’m ready to lighten up, and to stop being such an earnest stick-in-the-mud. I don’t think I’ll ever be as much of a hedonist as Donna would like me to be. I don’t think I’ll ever be as indulgent as Gracie would like me to be. I will always prefer to watch documentaries and to read non-fiction. I will always be a Hunter girl, but this time around I want to have more fun. Note: Oscar Wilde was a flamboyant fixture in London society. He wrote “The Importance of Being Earnest” in 1895 (I read it in the ninth grade at Hunter). Shortly after the play opened he was prosecuted for being a sodomite and sentenced to 2 years of prison and hard labor. Prison broke his health. He died in 1900, destitute.   Authenticity butch genderqueer high school Hunter College High School lesbian Oscar Wilde queer Supreme Court transgender The Importance of Not Being Earnest  The barrista recommended the Sumatra Mandheling Dark Roast. He filled up my thermos cup and I told him that “I like coffee that puts hair on my chest.” It’s true. I like coffee that has a little oil and a little sediment. At home I drink Mountain Java Supreme French Roast brewed in a French Press. The idiom came out of nowhere. I’ve never uttered that line before. I haven’t even allowed myself to wish for chest hair since I was a child. At the time, I wanted a chest like my father’s (slightly pudgy, and hairy, but definitely manly). There are other things I could have said. That I like coffee that could strip paint off a car. That I like coffee as thick as mud. Coffee that builds character. Coffee strong like bull. I half wish that drinking coffee would put hair on my chest. Or that eating spinach, would make my biceps bulge. When I was seven I wished for a hairy chest. While the other girls were dreaming about being blonde and wearing a bikini, I was hoping for a happy trail to go down to the top of my (imaginary) navy blue swim trunks. I still thought it was theoretically possible, but I knew not to talk about it. Girls only talked about removing body hair. I like my body hair. I like the hair on my legs, the hair under my arms, even my pubic hair. Getting body hair was the only part of puberty that I didn’t hate. It seemed more masculine than feminine. I wouldn’t have minded a little more hair. I wouldn’t have minded a little happy trail. I never learned how to shave. I refused to shave my arms and legs. I had all sorts of excuses, but mostly I didn’t shave because American men (at the time) didn’t shave their arms and legs. It was one more thing to drive my mother crazy, but since I didn’t wear skirts, dresses, shorts, or tank tops, my unshaven body hair wasn’t visible in public. Fortunately, body hair stops growing. I expected to end up looking like Rapunzel, but my armpit and leg hair both reached equilibrium. Excepting some random chin scruff (currently plucked) and a menopausal mustache (intact), my body hair is similar to what it was like when I was in high school. I’m not embarrassed by it. It’s natural. I am, and want to remain, a low maintenance groomer. I shower, wash my hair, dry off, and get dressed (and put on deodorant, and brush my teeth). If I go on low-dose testosterone and grow more body hair, I doubt I will want to do anything about it. Body hair growth (within reason) is neutral to positive. I’m not crazy about getting any more facial hair, but even without T I’m considering shaving my chin and upper lip. I ruled out wax, laser, and electrolysis; I don’t like pain. In the past I regarded all forms of hair removal, including using tweezers, as way too feminine for me. Right up there with wearing make-up and moisturizing. Then, while I wasn’t paying attention, younger men started to trim their chest hair, or go for the smooth and hairless look. Ordinary guys with ordinary bodies shaving their chests. Not a lot of hairy chests at the beach this summer. If I was that seven-year old today, what kind of chest would I be dreaming about? Would I still want that happy trail? Or would I change that idiom to “I like coffee that will take the hair off my chest”? Notes: Rebecca Herzig, in her book “Plucked: A History of Hair Removal”, states that as of 2005 over 60% of American men were regularly removing hair from parts of their body below their neck. This excerpt from the book, posted on Salon, is an introduction to how Americans got to where they are today. The entire book is available through the usual sources (I borrowed it from the New York Public Library), and is a good read.  Butch Or Trans? body hair body image butch ftm Gender genderqueer non-binary queer transgender Transition Chest Hair and Happy Trails  I don’t walk around my apartment naked. I wasn’t raised that way. My older brother and I shared a small bedroom in a small apartment. We wore clothes until bath time or bed time, changed into our pajamas in the bathroom, and went to bed. Once we were old enough to wipe ourselves and dry ourselves we were not naked in front of our parents. Nor were our parents naked in front of us. They were buttoned up. They did not hang around in pajamas, bathrobes, or loungewear. If you were awake you had all your clothes on. Except at the beach or the pool. The four of us shared one bathroom. There was a mirrored medicine cabinet over the sink; the only full length mirror was on the inside of the door to my parent’s bedroom. To use it you had to close their door. I never looked at myself in it dressed. I never looked at myself in it naked. I did not want to. I was protecting myself from the truth. I knew there was a physical difference between men and women, but I continued to believe that the only distinction between boys and girls was their haircut and what they were wearing. When I wore boy’s clothes I felt like a boy. When I wore girl’s clothes I felt out-of-place. I stayed ignorant. I never developed an accurate idea of what I looked like from the neck down. I only use the full length mirror in our bedroom when I’m getting dressed up. Donna is always telling me to look in the mirror; I am afraid it is going to crack. When I first started reading queer theory, I tried to read Gender Trouble by Judith Butler. Then I realized I needed to back up and read Foucault. Then I realized I needed to back up and read Lacan. All three were impenetrable and too academic for me to read cover to cover. Lacan’s contribution is the Mirror Stage, when a toddler realizes that the image in the mirror is a representation of themselves, an image of what they look like from the outside. That they are recognizable to others, the same way their caretakers are recognizable to them. How do I want to be recognized? Donna asked me what I wanted my chest to look like if I had top surgery. The question took me by surprise. I hadn’t thought about it. I had thought about what I don’t want (breasts) but not about what I do want (other than not to have breasts). I had no vision of what I would look like without a shirt on. Or what I wanted to look like naked in the mirror. I hadn’t thought at all about what Donna would see. I am contemplating top surgery because I like how I look when I wear a binder. With my clothes on. I don’t want to wear a binder for the rest of my life. I don’t want to feel constricted, contained, and compressed. I want my chest to be free. I need to stop focusing on what would be removed, and think about what would be created in its place. I can’t ratchet the clock back to when the difference between girls and boys was clothes, and I don’t want to hurtle forward and become a man. I can not relive my childhood as a boy; I can not retroactively change my body. I need to live in the present, look to the future, and not be afraid to make plans.  Body Image and Clothing body image butch dysphoria Gender genderqueer Lacan lesbian nudity queer top surgery transgender Naked in the Mirror  On January 14, 2014, I participated in the panel “How to ACT UP” at the New York Public Library. In keeping with the title, I unexpectedly outed myself as trans. In front of several hundred people. ACT UP at the March on Washington, 1987 I spent seven years in ACT UP (The AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power). We demonstrated by marching in the streets, disrupting FDA hearings, and throwing the ashes of our loved ones over the White House fence. We were trying to save lives and the government wasn’t paying attention. The drug companies were overcharging for ineffective drugs. My buddies were dying. We were consumed with anger. I was one of many activists who burned out. When I left ACT UP I lost contact with most of my activist friends. I went back to my normal life. I became unmoored. I was not the only member who suffered from loneliness and the loss of meaning in my life. We started talking to each other again after Spencer Cox’s death. We did not want to lose another comrade. There were six of us on the panel; Ron Goldberg, Jay Blotcher, Mark Milano, Alexis Danzig, Matthew Rodriguez and I. The auditorium was full. There were some current members of ACT UP, some veteran members of ACT UP, and assorted fellow travelers. We discussed the art of protesting, past and present. Then we took questions. Mariah Lopez rose and talked about how ACT UP did not pay attention to transgender issues and that as a trans woman of color she had lost many friends to AIDS and all of her friends were HIV positive. She chastised the organizers because there were no transgender people on the panel. At which point I was elbowed in the ribs by Ron and Alexis, and someone else shouted out that there was a trans person on the panel. I got the microphone. I thanked Mariah for raising the issues because these are things we don’t talk about publicly. I wish I had added that ACT UP had been remiss in dealing with the HIV epidemic within the transgender community. ACT UP had raised it tangentially in relationship to sex workers and intravenous drug users, but not actively in our regular discussions about harm reduction, access to drugs, and access to treatment. Instead, I blurted out that I identified as transgender. That you may look at someone, and listen to them, and not know that they are part of the transgender spectrum. That it is a mistake to assume that I am a butch lesbian and stop there. I gave back the microphone. The questions and answers continued, but I was sweating. I tried to speak to the room. I did not want to embarrass Mariah; she is a fellow activist. I also felt that she had trans rank over me. I see her as “really” transgender and I often see myself as “faux” transgender, i.e. “not trans enough.” I have no idea whether she is on hormones, had any kind of surgery, or is legally female. And it does not matter. What matters are my own issues self-identifying as butch and transgender and speaking out in public. I am not transsexual and I am not trying to pass. I could use being butch as a cover for being trans. I could invalidate my trans self. I could chose not to disclose it. I came out when I was 17. I’ve always been openly butch and gender non-conforming. Like Mariah, I believe in visibility even though I know that it is dangerous, and sometimes deadly, to be out. There are thugs, there is discrimination. It can be a hard way to live. It can limit your options. The more people who are out, whether it is as gay, lesbian, bisexual, queer, and/or transgender, then the safer it is for everyone. Some people do not have a closet to fall back into. Mariah and I chatted after the event and apologized to each other. We kissed and hugged and everything was fine, but I was still sweating. Note: Why We Fight: Remembering AIDS Activism is on display at the 42nd St. Library through April 6. There were two documentary films released last year about ACT UP; United in Anger and How to Survive a Plague. I have a cameo in each.  Butch Or Trans? ACT UP authenticity butch coming out genderqueer How to Survive a Plague identity lesbian lgbt queer trans* transgender United in Anger Why We Fight  It is 10° F in New York. I am surfing the internet for swimsuits. Gracie is curled up on the floor in a patch of late afternoon sunlight. I’d like to know what she is dreaming about. I have the perfect wardrobe for January; for 12 inches of snow, slush moats, and arctic windchill. I’ve got high-tech long underwear, three different types of fleece jackets, a down sweater and a down jacket, lightweight and heavy weight Gore-Tex shells, boot socks,  windproof gloves and moisture wicking glove liners, neck gaiters, wool beanies, and insulated waterproof work boots. I can mix and match for any  winter weather condition. If you wanted to throw an outdoor party in January I’d have the ideal outfit. I’m an urban slumberjack. Last year I waited until June to think about swimming. I swore it would be the last season that I’d wear a black racerback Speedo in the water, topped by a pair of quick-dry shorts and a damp T-shirt on the sand. A black racerback is the butch equivalent of a little black dress. It is elegant and understated, but I don’t wear dresses. I promised myself to start looking for genderqueer appropriate beach wear in January. This is my 2014 swimsuit challenge. Layers work great in January but are less appealing in June. It is my conundrum. My winter wardrobe hides my femaleness; a swimsuit exposes every last bit of it. Jamie, are you ready for a pool party? I’ve lost about 30 pounds since I bought my Speedo. Speedos are stretchy but they only contract so much. I need to replace my size 16 with something smaller. I went to swimoutlet.com and looked at racing suits, triathlon suits, and swim unitards. I am concerned that the unitard will accentuate my curves. I am afraid I will look like a sumo wrestler in it. If I try hard enough, I can morph my Speedo into a men’s swimsuit from the 1920’s. Until the early 1930’s it was considered obscene for men to bare their chests in public, even at the beach. Public ordinances prohibited it.  Men were arrested and fined for exposing their nipples and their belly buttons. Psychologically, I’d rather wear men’s gear. It would keep me from feeling like a conservative matron. Realistically, there are limits. I’ve ordered some board shorts from Patagonia. I’m in the anticipatory stage where they haven’t arrived yet, so they are the perfect solution. The problem is what to wear on top. I’m not interested in showing flesh; I’m thinking about a rash guard. The sentence that aches to be written is “I can’t do that until I have top surgery.” I can try a sports bra or a swimsuit under the rash guard. It is OK if I look like a self-conscious queer. At least the rash guard will be rated UPF-50 and I won’t get sunburned on my shoulders. I discovered that I am not the only person who is confused about what to wear under my imaginary board shorts. There is a surfing controversy between going commando and wearing some form of boxers or briefs. The commando cons are sand, board wax, and sea lice in your junk, and leaving nothing to the imagination. The layered look cons are feeling like you are wearing a wet diaper under your board shorts, showing panty-lines, and having your underwear band peek out over the rim. I’ll have to take a bath in them and see how they look. And then pretend that surf’s up. Update: I never went swimming in 2014, but you can read about my purchases of swimming binders, genderqueer swimsuits, and butch friendly swimsuits and compression tops in my 2015 post here.  Note: Here are two short picturesque articles on the history of men’s and women’s swimsuits, and the fight for the right to bare arms.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity beach butch challenges dysphoria femme genderqueer lesbian queer surfing Swimsuit transgender Catch a Wave: My 2014 Swimsuit Challenge  I spend a lot of time thinking about how people see me and what I look like. Not because I am vain and stylish, but because my mother was obsessed with making me look like a girl. We were both unhappy with how I looked; we had different ideas on how to solve the problem. Every day I struggled to get dressed and go to school. I hated wearing skirts and dresses. I hated wearing tights. I hated wearing Mary Janes. I hated wearing pastels, lace, bows, and anything that had elastic in the waist or a zipper in the back. I threw a lot of tantrums. I wanted to look like a boy not a girl. I could not understand why my mother insisted on putting me in clothes I hated. By the third grade I had acquired a wardrobe of drab unadorned dresses, and dark Oxford shoes. While I despised these clothes, they were the least objectionable of what was available. I wore them like a prison uniform. The clothes were ugly. but innocuous enough that I could numb out in them. I refused to inhabit them. I daydreamed my way out of them. I changed as soon as I got home. I had some girl clothes I could tolerate and some hand-me-downs from my brother that I cherished. I avoided the mirror unless I was wearing clothes I felt comfortable in. My mother was determined. I refused to make any effort to look like a girl. She bullied me. I didn’t budge. It was a dreary battle that went on for years. The kind of battle that makes a child sullen and stubborn. An argument that got imperceptibly meaner each time it was fought. My mother was sharp-tongued and vicious. She would yell at me and I would stand still and try to let the sound bounce off of me. I would concentrate on the syllables and ignore the meaning. Day in and day out she sniped at me. I tried not to argue back. I wanted to defend myself but when I did it backfired. It gave her more ammunition. I avoided talking to her. I did my homework. I read books. I stuffed myself with food. I pulled myself into my own thoughts. I pretended to be a boy. I watched baseball on TV. I listened to music. I killed a lot of time. Every sentence was loaded. Every conversation ended with raised voices or slammed doors. I thought this was how all mothers behaved in private. She pretended to be nice when there was company, but the moment they left she reverted. I did not realize that my mother’s behavior was out of line until I was in my teens. I did not tag her as abusive until I was in my twenties. I thought I got what I deserved. I thought it was my fault; if I’d been “normal” everything would have been OK. I half believed her when she said I was over-sensitive and couldn’t handle constructive criticism. I convinced myself that the solution was to go away to college. That once I got away from her I would be alright. I thought I was leaving my mother behind but I carried her with me. I did not realize how much damage had been done; that her obsessions had become my obsessions. I did not realize much how much work I had to do, and still have to do, to be free.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity bullying butch childhood Gender genderqueer lesbian memoir parenting queer transgender My Mother’s Obsession  A couple of posts ago, I referred to myself, in my youth, as a stone butch. This created a controversy. Everyone has their own ideas about what a stone butch is. All negative. And they didn’t include me. Butch, no argument, but not stone. That is because I am, and aways have been, a big softy. A big hugger, a big kisser, and a big cuddler. I’m sweet and I’m considerate. With humans and with dogs. I just don’t like taking my clothes off or having my “girl” parts fiddled with. Stone butch sounds hard and immovable. Stone butch sounds cold and rough. It isn’t. I’m not made out of bedrock. I am a butch with contradictions. I am a butch with limits. Some labels are too hard, some labels are too soft, and none of them feels just right. Not even the little bear’s. I don’t require my own special seat at the gender table. I don’t want to be corralled into the polygon sliver within the overlapping circles of lesbian, butch, transgender, queer, neutrois, genderqueer, androgynous, agender, tomboy, and transmasculine. Nor do I want to define myself by the empty space left over after eliminating what I am not: cisgender, straight, polyamorous, bisexual, transsexual, trans man, or ftm. I would like to be able to explain myself in one sentence that anyone can understand and relate to. I don’t like using labels to exclude people. I was excluded for being odd, weird, different, queer, and awkward. An introverted tomboy. I was only included in social activities when I was bullied; otherwise I was shunned. I was the kid with the cooties from kindergarten through 6th grade. That wasn’t how I identified; it was branded onto me by the other kids at P.S. 40, Manhattan. There was no escaping it. I am wary of labels and categories that are applied by outsiders, even if they mean well. I do not want to be narrowly defined by the medical or psychiatric establishment. I don’t want to be patronized. I don’t wan to be pathologized. When I tell someone I’m transgender, they may think that I just started to transition, or that I’m not very convincing. I don’t look “trans enough” to them. They are not interested in how I think about myself and where I place myself on the gender spectrum. They ask if I am on testosterone and if I’ve had surgery. When I tell someone I’m butch, they see a masculine woman who fits their stereotype of what a lesbian looks like. They see me as “butch enough.” They are not interested in how I think about myself. If I state that butch and transgender do not have to be mutually exclusive then I need to be prepared for the Spanish Inquisition. From all sides. Below are a few low jargon, nonjudgmental, and grammatically awkward ways to describe me:  I always wanted to be a boy and to wear boy’s/men’s clothes, and I’ve always been attracted to women. I’ve never been, or wanted to be, feminine and I lean towards the masculine. The women I’ve been attracted to are warm and earthy. I’m not comfortable being a girl/woman, yet I am not convinced that becoming a man would make me happier. I am in a good long-term relationship with Donna and I want to keep it that way, even if I have to make compromises. I am happiest in the company of dogs and women (especially Gracie and Donna).  CN Lester and Sophia Banks have started a project called Songs Of Ourselves. Their mission is to provide a place where “I allow myself to be who I know myself to be”.  It is worth checking out, and if you identify as trans you may want to consider adding yourself into their mix.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity bullying butch Cooties femme Gender identity genderqueer labels lesbian neutrois stone butch transgender Sticks and Stones  I was straightening up the papers on my desk when I found the manilla envelope with my elementary school class pictures. Then I recalled the picture of my brother in his Cub Scout uniform. It sat on the piano in our mother’s apartment, opposite a picture of me in a dress. My brother’s Cub Scout handbook Some people seem to have complete recall of their childhood, and can flip it on like a television show on reruns. Not me. I can not put together a linear narrative. It is a disorganized jumble of images and half-obscured scenes. When I was seven I had to face up to being prohibited from joining the Cub Scouts, being barred from trying out for Little League, and being forbidden to study drumming. I was offered alternatives. I refused to become a Brownie. I refused to go to gymnastics. I refused to study dance. I took piano lessons and music theory.  The reasoning was clear to me, but I did not have the vocabulary to explain that I was butch or transgender. The Brownie uniform included a skirt. Gymnastics required wearing a leotard. Dance required wearing a tutu, tights, and ballet slippers. It would have been impossible to pretend that I was a boy in any of those outfits. I wanted to do exactly what my brother did.  Music school was not gendered. In theory class we learned about rhythm and instruments, including percussion. All the composers we studied were men, but curiously feminine. Their hair was styled like my grandmother’s and they wore knickers and lace. I learned to read music and pick out themes on the piano. I borrowed Jon’s drum sticks and practiced on his drum pad. I could tap out time signatures, but I couldn’t dance to them. Unfortunately, I believed that dancing was for girls. I don’t dance. I liked music, but I really wanted to be a Cub Scout. I wanted to wear the uniform. I wanted to earn badges. I wanted to do good deeds. I memorized the handbook, practiced the two-fingered salute and the two-fingered handshake, and followed the Cub Scout code of honor. A Scout is trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean, and reverent. Jon was a lazy scout; he lost interest after a year. I could not understand why. Illya is on the left. Solo is on the right. There is a cadaver in the middle. Happy new year! The closest I got to being a Cub Scout was going to the Cub Scout parties. There was a Halloween party; we had to attend as a duo. I wasn’t going with him as Boris and Natasha or Clark Kent and Lois Lane. Before my mother could intervene, I threw out a dozen options to my brother: Tom and Jerry, Rocky and Bullwinkle, Batman and Robin, Wally and The Beaver, Lennon and McCartney, Roger Maris and Micky Mantle, and finally, Napoleon Solo and Illya Kuryakin in The Man from U.N.C.L.E. I got to go as Kuryakin. I wore black pants and a black turtleneck. Jon wore a white shirt and a skinny black tie. We both carried guns and U.N.C.L.E. identification. I vaguely remember parading around in a circle in the church basement to show off our costumes. Then we ran around shooting villains and drinking Hawaiian Punch. It was a perfect afternoon. The Cub Scouts are an anti-gay organization that promotes traditional binary values. The Man from U.N.C.L.E. is an obscure and sexist piece of reactionary Cold War propaganda. Even though I find their politics objectionable, I remain a Cub Scout wanna-be. I want to earn my badges and do good deeds, but I want to do it my way.  Authenticity Boy Scouts butch childhood Cub Scouts gender non-conforming genderqueer lesbian lgbt queer The Man from U.N.C.L.E transgender The Confessions of a Cub Scout Wanna-be  Sometimes you just need help with a problem. I started this blog a year ago because I needed to think through whether I was butch or transgender and to get a better understanding of the interplay between my sexual identity and my gender identity. Like a truck trying to get out of the mud, I’ve spun my wheels and dug myself deeper in. That’s OK, it’s where I belong. I’m still both. I am not getting out of my rut, I am getting more comfortable in it. If I could do it over, I would have started this process when I was twenty-five. I’d rather be twenty-five right now. If I was, I probably would be making different choices. At twenty-five, transitioning might have been the right choice. I’ll never know. In middle-age, it seems less appealing. When I was twenty-five I had just fallen in love with Donna, and I was trying to figure out how to be in a relationship. I was a stone butch, but I didn’t want to be. I was ashamed of it. I thought I should be enjoying sex. Everybody else was. I knew something was wrong, I still wanted to be a boy, but I couldn’t admit it to anyone. Not even my therapist. I tried and I ended up quitting therapy (only to start up again with someone else I couldn’t talk to about it for a very long time). On the surface, everything was fine. I had a partner I loved, an interesting job with health benefits and a pension, I was politically active,  and I had a social life. I suppressed wanting to be a boy, and only let myself think about it in fantasy. My sexual identity was butch and my gender expression was butch. I created a pretty good life for myself. I was only partially present in it. I regret waiting for so long to deal with being transgender. I regret being on butch auto-pilot for all those years. I regret the shame. The unspoken repression was hard on Donna; she could not know why I was often disconnected. I’m more present now, but the flip side of acceptance is that it opens up a lot of questions. Donna is apprehensive, first I wanted to change my name, then I started flirting with binding and top surgery, then what? I tell her I am not interested in socially transitioning to male or taking testosterone, but I can understand why she doesn’t trust me. When you are transgender anything is possible. Ideas that seem pathological one day seem normal the next. I’d rather try to be a middle-aged queer bodied butch than try to be a middle-aged straight guy. I have a lot more empathy for mid-life crises than I used to. I’ve seen a lot of the guys I work with go through them. They’ve bought red Cadillac sedans with embossed leather seats and Bose sound systems. They’ve divorced and remarried. They’ve bleached their hair and gone surfer-style (with a beer gut and sciatica). I used to think they’d lost their minds. But now I understand that they’ve been on auto-pilot too. I’ve got more in common with them than I thought. Marlon Brando with his grandmother’s dachshund Kurtze Beiner (1949), I’d like to be one of those people who sail through life without regrets, but I have them. I can either learn from them and move on, or I can obsess about whom I might have been if I’d made different choices (“I coulda’ been a contender“). I can still wish I looked like the young Marlon Brando. I’ve learned a lot during the year. I am grateful to WordPress.com for providing me with a platform for my writing, for giving me an opportunity to participate in the blogging community, and for supporting my work by selecting it for Freshly Pressed (thank you Cheri Lucas Rowlands).  A special thank you to timethief and her “one cool site” for having the answers to all the questions I thought of asking, and for telling me what I didn’t know I needed to know about blogging. And a happy new year to the bloggers and readers who subscribe, comment, like, lurk, follow, and heel alongside me and Gracie. You keep me writing. Thanks.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity butch Freshly Pressed Gender genderqueer lesbian Marlon Brando mid-life crisis queer regrets stone butch transgender year in review What I Learned This Year  The Big Gay Ice Cream Truck Haunts Me I’m still trying to find my sweet spot. The place where everything butch and everything transgender fits together and feels right. I’m not there yet, but I am closer than I was last year. I’m still evolving. I need to eat an ice cream cone. The sweet spot may sound like a pathway to  either gastronomic pleasure or sexual pleasure, but it is actually a music and a sports metaphor. In the analog era, audiophiles tweaked the sweet spot. It was the place where you got the best sound in the room. The complete stereo effect. A different kind of non-binary; the precise balance between the left channel and the right channel. In baseball, the sweet spot is the perfect place of contact on the bat. The home-run spot. I’m still looking for it. My sweet spot is elusive. It is inside me. I need to find it. I’ve read that what I enjoyed as a ten-year old is probably what I would enjoy now. I’m going to find out if this is true. My list is short: eat an ice cream cone, swim in the ocean, go ice skating in Central Park, go to a folk music festival, go to a Mets game. All of these are things I have done as an adult, but not in the last year. It was a busy year; I didn’t have time. I did have a couple of bites of ice cream from a shared dessert in a restaurant. I never ordered my own cone.  “Don’t wait until you have free time. You may never have any free time.” – Gretchen Rubin, author of The Happiness Project. Good advice. I’ve been following Weight Watchers for 18 months. I lost my baby fat. I reached my goal (140 pounds) and I’ve struggled to stay there. Losing the weight was no picnic. Staying within two pounds of my goal is a Herculean effort. I’ve stopped binge eating (I no longer find myself standing in front of an open refrigerator with random food stuffed in my mouth). I’ve cut down on my drinking. I have not stopped obsessing about my body and my weight. I have not reached nirvana. I promised myself last year, that when I hit goal I would treat myself to a cone at The Big Gay Ice Cream Truck or at L’Arte del Gelato. I imagined sitting on a bench with Gracie and enjoying my cone, lick by lick. But when I hit goal, I realized that I had to maintain the new weight. I re-promised myself that when I had remained at my goal for 8 weeks, I would celebrate and get an ice cream. The weeks passed. Donna and I went to Mexico on vacation. We came back and started planning for Thanksgiving. I was still barely within goal, but I didn’t let myself get the ice cream. I kept coming up with excuses for why I should wait. I didn’t want to sabotage my progress. I didn’t have enough time to enjoy it. It was too cold outside. On Weight Watchers you can eat anything you want as long as you make room for it in your weekly regimen. One ice cream cone, no matter how large, does not take up a lot of space in the program. It takes up space in my head. The ice cream scares me. Eating it means that I accept my body where it is. That I am no longer “trying to lose weight”. That I am willing to eat something “fat” and it is not the end of the world. I can put a pound on. It doesn’t mean I’m a recidivist. I know how to take it back off. I’d like the ice cream to just be an ice cream. My sweet spot has to include being at peace with my current middle-aged butch body. My sweet spot has to include being at peace with my transgender nature. My sweet spot has to make room for my ten-year old self in all my chubby, awkward, tomboy glory. Unconstrained, unsuppressed, and eating a big drippy ice cream cone. With gusto.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity body image butch compulsive eating Gender genderqueer Gretchen Rubin Ice cream lesbian non-binary queer transgender Weight Watchers The Sweet Spot  Timmy and Lassie My desire to have a dog was based on Timmy and Lassie. If I had a dog I could have an adventure. I could have a trusty companion. I could be loved unconditionally. My mother was quick to point out that dogs were dirty, and that Stuyvesant Town forbid them. I settled for stuffed animals. My favorite was Lucky the Lion. He was so big that he took up the whole foot of my bed. He was the first prize I ever won. My name was pulled out of the raffle drum at the “father and sons” dinner at Congregation Rodeph Sholom. Daughters were allowed, but I pretended I was a son. I carried Lucky the Lion home on the bus; he took up two seats. It is hard to go on an adventure with a big stuffed lion. I sat with Lucky the Lion on my bed and daydreamed. I pretended to be a boy with a dog. I imagined that my dog would anticipate and follow all my commands. I thought all dogs were perfect, like Lassie. Jamie and Gracie (2008) When I was 10, we moved. It wasn’t a big move. It was to a slightly larger apartment up the street in Peter Cooper Village (no dogs allowed). My mother wanted us to throw out our old toys. She said I was too old for stuffed animals. I knew I was too old to want to be a boy, but I could not stop wanting to be one. Lucky the Lion was dumped into a bin in the garbage room. I left him behind. When I turned thirty, I thought I should get a dog. I wasn’t sure because I never owned one. I had read a lot about dogs, but I didn’t know much about living with one. The books were full of warnings about being the alpha dog and making sure the dog knew you were in charge. It didn’t sound like playing Timmy and Lassie. If I made the wrong decision it could make my life and the dog’s life miserable. I waited three years and then I adopted Lena. After Lena died, I adopted Gracie. I was lucky. I was a dog person all along. There is nothing I would rather be doing than sitting on the couch rubbing Gracie’s belly.  Being around dogs make me happy. Even an imperfect dog, like Gracie. Gracie is a good girl, but she’s a handful. She barks at all the new dogs in our building, and lunges after anyone on a skateboard. She barks every morning at 5:15 when our neighbor’s New York Times is delivered with a thud. She scratches at the couch as if she was trying to dig to China. But when she turns around and looks up at me with that goofy grin, or when she rolls over and thumps her tail on the floor, I melt. I’m a soft-hearted butch. I’m an imperfect owner. I don’t neglect Gracie, but I’m busy. I don’t have enough time to work with her. I don’t give her as much exercise as she needs. I take her to the dog run, but I can’t tire her out enough to calm her down. She’d be happier if she was herding sheep. She’d be happier if I took her for an adventure instead of reading or sitting at the computer. She’d be happier with Timmy. Gracie in the snow (2013) Saturday was the first real snowfall of the season. Gracie loves the snow. She loves to pee on it. If there is any leftover snow within a quarter-mile of our apartment she will hold it until we get to that patch. Because she loves snow, I love snow. As soon as it starts snowing, I reach for her leash and we go out for a walk. She snuffles it, as if she’s hunting for truffles. She paws it, she rolls in it, she’s happy. I’m happy. We are both covered with snow.  Doggerel authenticity butch childhood dogs genderqueer Lassie lesbian relationships snow transgender The Adventures of Timmy and Lassie  I tried to make it through the Thanksgiving weekend without shopping. Donna and I had cooked Thanksgiving dinner for ten, and we had a couple of friends stay over with us. We ate a lot of food, and stayed up late talking. I wanted to recuperate and relax. I didn’t make it. On Saturday, I set off for the Union Square Greenmarket to get some local apples and dark leafy greens. I got sidetracked by the big “30% Off” sign in the window of J. Crew. I bought two plaid shirts and a wool fair isle sweater before I got to the kale, collard greens, and broccoli rabe. It wasn’t completely my fault. My e-mail was bombarded with 30% and 40% off coupons. I tried to ignore them, but some marketer understands my psychology. I succumbed to the hype. The sweater is great; the two shirts are nice but a little long on me (or I am a little short for them). I don’t have buyer’s remorse. I have two more shirts I don’t need. On Monday, I struggled to not peek at the Timberland, Lucky Brand, American Eagle Outfitters, and Brooks Brothers websites. I didn’t want to feel the shopping itch again. I didn’t want to be a Cyber Monday sucker. I heard the coupons singing to me. This time I resisted. I unconsciously keep track of things I’ve seen (e.g. the wool sweater), things I’ve imagined will make me look good, clothes that will magically turn me from a butch frog into a handsome prince. It never works, but I keep believing that I will be transformed. I flip through the men’s sections of catalogs wishing I looked like the models. I can not buy my way out of being who I am, but I keep trying. Pluto looking at himself in the Hall of Mirrors. From “Bone Trouble.” What I see in my head never matches what I see in the mirror. When I look in the mirror I distort the image. It is like having two circus mirrors, one on the inside and one on the outside. I do not have a way to accurately see whom I look like. I don’t have a clear picture of  my silhouette; I can’t keep the crayon in-between the lines. My holiday shopping is only for me. Donna and I don’t celebrate Christmas. The official reason is that I am Jewish and my parents believed that Jews observed Christmas by eating Chinese food. The unofficial reason is that my birthday is Christmas Eve. When I was little I resented that it was overshadowed by that other guy’s birthday. I didn’t want to celebrate either one. I have mixed feelings about my birthday. I don’t like being the center of attention. My birthday was tainted by my mother’s disapproval of my boyishness, her desire for me to conform, and her inability or refusal to give me a present I might like. By the end of the day all I wanted to do was make a wish, blow out the candles, eat the cake, and go to bed. I still have trouble with presents. I am unable to ask for what I want. I don’t believe that I will be taken seriously. I am afraid of being judged. I ask for things that are safe, like books (this year’s list includes Julia Serano‘s new book “Excluded” and Yotam Ottonlenghi’s first cookbook “Plenty“). If I yearn for something material, I will buy it. The intangibles I keep to myself. Note: Here is a link to the Disney cartoon “Bone Trouble.” It is eight minutes of pure fun, starring Pluto and Butch the Bulldog. The scenes with Pluto in the Carnival’s Hall of Mirrors are fabulous. He handles mirrors much better than I do.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity body image butch Cyber Monday genderqueer Julia Serano lesbian queer shopping transgender The Shopping Itch  I walked out of my appointment at Callen-Lorde, on Thursday morning, with a box of 30 packets of 25mg of 1% testosterone gel (Perrigo brand, expires 5/2018) and a signed Informed Consent form. The week before the appointment I kept flip-flopping. When I walked in, I didn’t know if I was going to bring it up again. I didn’t know if my new Nurse Practitioner even remembered that was why I came in a year ago, when I had my intake with her predecessor, but, right after she asked me how I was feeling, she asked me if I wanted a prescription. I squeaked out “Yes.” She said my blood work looked good, my cholesterol was down, and if I chose to use hormones she’d monitor my progress and work with me. She took out the Informed Consent form, and quickly ran down the risks: increased cholesterol, increased number of red blood cells, acne, and increased risk of heart disease, high blood pressure, stroke, and liver inflammation. Then she read me the irreversible body changes: deepening of voice, facial and body hair, fat redistribution, and male pattern baldness. I signed, she signed, and another Callen-Lorde staff member signed as the witness. It took less than two minutes. She asked me if I wanted to set up a follow-up, and I told her that I wanted to wait a while before I started, if I started, and that I’d set something up when I had a plan. Before I left, I asked her if she had other clients who took low-dose testosterone and how they fared on it. She said that everyone was different, but that it was not uncommon to start on a 1/2 packet (12.5mg) and wait and see what happens and how it feels. The gel is slower and less of a shock to the system than injection. It is matter of personal preference, but she hadn’t worked with anyone who regretted starting. As often as I’ve read about the risks, I was surprised at how jarring it was to hear them said out loud. I’ve read a lot about testosterone, and rationally I know what I am getting myself into. Hearing the word “stroke” shook me up. I believe in informed consent. I believe that it is the patient’s responsibility to be their own expert. I don’t want anyone else to determine whether I am a good candidate for taking testosterone. I don’t want anyone else to question whether I am trans enough, or whether someone who isn’t interested in a full binary transition should be allowed to start testosterone at all. I signed the form. I understand the health risks, but I don’t have a good sense of the probability of each risk, or how low-dose affects the probability of each risk, or how my age affects the probability of each risk. I signed the form the same way I click Accept every time Apple upgrades my iOS. I signed with the assumption that if I do start testosterone, and I get regular blood work, then my NP can catch anything before it gets out of hand. I didn’t read the fine print. I hope I don’t have to. I can’t clearly articulate why I’m thinking about taking testosterone or exactly what I want to get out of it. I know I don’t want to transition to male, but I want to blur the line. I don’t know if I would feel better on low-dose testosterone. I don’t know how my body, hair-line, and voice would respond to it. When I came home, I put the testosterone in a drawer. I felt a little giddy. Relieved. I was tempted to break out a packet and put some on, but I hadn’t even told Donna, my partner, what happened. The light’s turned green, the engine’s running, but my foot’s still on the brake, and I don’t know if I want to ease off the pedal. Notes: This set of guidelines from UCSF is one of the few that specifies a protocol for starting non-binary low-dose testosterone. UCSF recommends between 12.5mg and 25mg of daily topical gel to start (or 20mg/week injected). The common starting protocol for trans men is 50mg/week by injection, working up to 100mg/week. This list of “Things They Didn’t Put on Your Informed Consent Sheet” was written by a trans man after his first year on T and provides more food for thought.  Authenticity body image butch ftm genderqueer informed consent low dose testosterone non-binary queer testosterone transgender Transition Informed Consent  One side of the mushroom will make you larger…but which side? It is a parlor game. If you could swallow a pill that would change your body shape into whatever form you wished, what would you wish for and would you swallow the pill? My first reaction is I’d like to be a few inches taller (5’7 instead of 5’4) and have a masculinized chest (i.e. top surgery). My second reaction is whoa slow down and think this through. I’m good at procrastinating. I can wait until I am clear about what I want to do, or until I have no choice but to take action. I promised Donna that I if I was going to have top surgery, I would wait until she was ready. I am still waiting; neither of us is ready. When I first started to think about what it meant to be transgender, I was both intrigued by and repelled by top surgery. I am still ambivalent. I’ve tried to write posts before about top surgery, but they have not felt right. This is yet another attempt. If the thought of a butch (or me in particular) considering top surgery creeps you out, stop here and read another post. Otherwise, continue down into the rabbit hole. From the time I first recognized myself in the mirror I have been gender dysphoric. I’ve managed it since kindergarten by having short hair and wearing boy’s and then men’s clothes. I’ve managed it by being visibly queer and butch. Some days I do better than others. When I lost weight, my dysphoria shifted to my chest. My breasts were more visible, or seemed more visible to me. For psychological comfort, not physical comfort, I’ve been wearing a compression sports bra or a binder. I like the flat look; but my body is not naturally flat. I wish I had a flat chest. If you offered me the pill, I’d take it. I’m not so sure about anesthesia and the knife. I’ve had four surgeries between my knees and my uterus. I put off a partial hysterectomy for as long as possible. In retrospect, delaying was a mistake. I believed in natural menopause. I thought I could handle the anemia and hemorrhaging  from the fibroids. I felt immediately better after the surgery (after I recovered from the anesthesia) and was ecstatic to never have my period again. I was not aware of how dysphoric I was about menstruation until it stopped. There is no way to know how I would feel about having top surgery. Would I wonder why I waited or would I think that nothing really changed except for the size of my chest? Below are some of the arguments against top surgery that have I have heard and considered. Some are transphobic (i.e. they deny the validity of a transgender identity).  Even if your breasts make you uncomfortable you should keep them because they are a part of you. Do the best you can with what you’ve got. You are strong and you can deal with the dysphoria. You think your dysphoria is about your breasts, but if you had top surgery it could resurface attached to another body part. Think of all the starving children and ask yourself if it is right to spend the money on cutting off your breasts. You do not need medical intervention to be transgender. It is just a phase you are going through. If you wait it out it may pass. You are perfect just the way you are.  This is the other side:  There is no butch narrative or transgender narrative that you need to hew to. Having top surgery does not make you less butch or more transgender than you are now. Dysphoria is a horrible thing to deal with day in and day out. If top surgery would lessen your dysphoria then you should consider it. Binding or wearing a sports bra is not comfortable, do you really want to do that for the rest of your life? You do have privilege and money. If you feel guilty about it donate your time or money to a worthy cause. It has nothing to do with top surgery. Trust your self to make the right decision; you will know when and if you are ready.  I’ve spent some time on You Tube, Transbucket, and Tumblr. I’ve looked at a lot of graphic depictions of top surgery. I don’t have a clear vision of what I want my chest to look like. I’ve read and re-read Micah’s top surgery posts on Neutrois Nonsense. I’ve researched a few surgeons, but haven’t found anyone in the New York metropolitan area who comes highly recommended (Taub or Weiss). The lazy New York chauvinist in me is hesitant to travel to Chicago (Steinwald) or Cleveland (Medalie). I don’t have a plan. Deciding whether or not to get top surgery is not a parlor game. It is serious. The more time I spend thinking about it, the more accustomed to the idea I get. The less appalling it seems. It starts to sound like a rational solution to an irrational problem. I can either compress/bind or I can have surgery; there is no going back to how it was before. There is no magic pill. Note: The post title is from the Jefferson Airplane‘s song “White Rabbit“. The song is based on Lewis Carroll’s “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland”, illustrated by John Tenniel. The text and drawings are in the public domain and available through Project Gutenberg. Growing up, I did not like the book (I only liked books about boys), but I re-read it in college. I wanted to understand the references in the song.  Butch Or Trans? Alice in Wonderland body image butch dysphoria genderqueer Jefferson Airplane lesbian queer top surgery transgender Transition One Pill Makes You Larger and One Pill Makes You Small  Superman on Central Park West; Popeye in the distance. When I was a kid, Thanksgiving was my favorite holiday. Not because of the food, but because my brother and I got to go with my dad to the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade. We called it “The Parade.” It is huge. Hours of gigantic balloons and marching bands, platoons of police horses and clowns. It ends with Santa Claus on a sleigh, followed by the Sanitation Department crew. Besides the balloons, our favorite part was watching the marching bands and majorettes tiptoe in formation through what the police horses left behind.  My dad’s job was to keep us out of the apartment while my mother cooked. My mother was not a good cook. She did not like to cook from scratch, and struggled to put a turkey, gravy, stuffing, candied yams, cranberry sauce, and green beans on the table. It was an unpleasant obligation. It was her attempt to prove that we were a happy family. We set out early in the morning to claim a good spot right on the barricades so no one could block our view. If we got tired we could sit on the curb. My dad packed a thermos of hot chocolate and some sandwiches. It can be blustery cold in November. We bundled up in our warmest clothes and waited for Superman and Bullwinkle. We didn’t get much time alone with our dad. He loosened up away from my mother. She would have been undone by our exuberance and by the size of the crowd. There was too much pointing, shouting, shoving, and whooping for her. My dad kept us occupied with word games, guessing games, and trick questions. Being at the parade felt like being my dad’s youngest son. It made me happy. Bullwinkle and a marching band. My brother and I would press against the barricade and crane our necks to see what was coming. We’d try to guess the next balloon before it came fully into view. We’d watch the handlers navigate the balloons down the street, amazed at how they dodged the tree limbs and the lampposts. After the parade we’d walk through Central Park and clamber over the big rocks. We’d walk down 5th Avenue and look at the Christmas decorations. Eventually, my dad would look at his watch and decide it was time to take us home. My mother would be overwhelmed by trying to get all the food cooked, and upset because her fantasy of a happy family was ruined by our arrival. I had to go in and kiss my grandmother and great-aunt hello and excuse myself to get changed back into being a girl. Then we ate. My mother pretended to enjoy herself, but the table conversation was formal and stilted. I stuffed myself with yams, cranberry sauce, and pie. My mother critiqued how much I was eating, despairing that I would ever look normal. My dad looked at me, imploring me to not answer. I ate fast so I could be excused from the table. Donna and I reclaimed Thanksgiving when we moved in together. We cook for our friends. There is plenty of food and most of it is delicious. There are the usual tensions of trying to do too much at the last-minute, but we make an effort to get through it with humor. It is a leisurely meal with lively discussion. Thanksgiving is still my favorite holiday.  Authenticity butch family Fathers genderqueer holidays lesbian Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade queer Thanksgiving transgender Waiting for Superman  It finally dropped below freezing in New York. That means layers. And flannel. I love winter. It takes the edge off my dysphoria. The official start of my flannel season is the weekend after Labor Day. I take stock of my shirts. Which one needs a button, which ones are so scruffy that they should only be worn for chores, and which ones should go into the rag box. One of the sad things about flannel is that it doesn’t last forever. I own fifteen flannel shirts, not counting three that are permanent loan to Donna. All of them are plaid. I am waiting for a new plaid flannel shirt to arrive; I won it as a contest prize from The Flannel Files. Once, during my internet travels, I hyper-linked into Gabriel’s “tips for transmen” post which recommended avoiding plaid flannel because it would “make you look like a lesbian.” The author recommended wearing slim fitting dark shirts with vertical stripes. I ignored his advice; I’m trying to be read as masculine and queer, not male. I see lots of good looking guys hunkering down in flannel without fear of being mistaken for a lesbian. Plaid flannel is masculine in my style book. As long as it doesn’t have princess seams or bust darts. This guy is not concerned about what other people think. Plaid flannel is not redundant. A plaid is a pattern, and flannel is a fabric. Plaids are tartans; they originated in Scotland in the 16th century. There are thousands of registered tartans, but only a handful are consistently used in flannel shirts. Tartans were used for wool blankets and then kilts (often worn with a blanket over the shoulder). The word plaid is derived from plaide, the Scottish Gaelic word for blanket. Cotton flannel became popular in the 1800’s;  and was mostly used for warm underwear (e.g. the union suit). It has never been considered a luxury fabric. According to this article, plaid and cotton flannel were merged together by Carhartt, in the 1890’s. Plaid flannel shirts were developed for railway workers, loggers, and farmers. They are also stereotypically butch. I’m OK with the stereotype. I bought my first plaid flannel shirt at Dave’s Army Navy, with money I saved by babysitting. My mother would only buy me girl’s clothing. As a result I had two wardrobes – what she bought and what I wore. The shirt was a blue and green plaid, probably a Black Watch. I was fourteen. I didn’t know I was gay, I just wanted to look like a boy. When I came out as butch, I did not have to buy any new clothes. When I came out as transgender, I did not have to buy any new clothes. I treated myself to some spiffy stuff just for fun. If I were really trying to be read as male, I would ditch my button to the left shirts, including some old L.L.Bean flannels. Eventually they will wear out and be replaced. The one piece of advice that I took away from Gabriel’s “tips” post is to buy the correct size. I’m at least two sizes smaller than I was two years ago, and I’m trying to stop wearing baggy shirts. He’s right, close fitting shirts do look better. Even if they’re plaid flannel.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch dysphoria fashion Flannel shirt genderqueer lesbian masculinity plaid transgender Plaid Flannel  “I’m not misogynist, I love women.” As soon as the words came out of my mouth I regretted saying them. I was trying to convince Donna that there was nothing inherently misogynist or sexist about being either butch or transgender. That being masculine did not mean hating or objectifying women. Or did it? This is not about ogling women on the street or tallying sexual conquests. It is about the insidious microaggressions in everyday life that I am guilty of. I am impatient. I get annoyed. I do not like to consider the possibility that I might be wrong about anything. Including being misogynist. Growing up I rejected girl’s clothing, girl’s toys, girl’s gestures, and girl’s hobbies. I considered dressing up and flirting superficial and frivolous. I despised anything frilly. I learned to value speed over accuracy, actions over words, linear over circular, plans over spontaneity. I learned to value masculine over feminine; butch over femme. I chose to reject what I considered the feminine in myself. I know I rush Donna. I try not to. She likes to take her time. She is an artist and enjoys looking at things. Not just art. She looks intently, for a longer time than I do. When we go to a flea market or a museum, I bring a book, just in case. We are on vacation, on our way to a museum. Donna stops to look at the display in a bakery window, asks me to slow down and amble because she is walking in sandals, points to a woman in an interesting hat, and wants to go into a shop that has embroidered blouses. I am looking at my watch. We are not trying to make a curtain, the museum is not about to close, there is no reason to hurry. Donna can feel me shepherding her along, nudging her forward. Even if I do not say anything, we both know what I am thinking. It is not nice. It is not respectful. It contains every female stereotype I can dredge up. It is my own discomfort and anxiety with femininity. I am uncomfortable shopping for women’s clothing, even if it is for Donna. I find an unobtrusive place to sit, and open my book. Half and hour later she emerges, wearing a turquoise top with pink embroidered flowers. It is stunning on her. She knows it. She buys it and puts it in my backpack. I carry packages. I look at maps. I open jars. I open doors. If there is an uneven sidewalk, I tell Donna to watch her step. I am Sir Galahad, I want to protect Donna and maintain control. It isn’t necessary. She is not a damsel in distress. I’m not sure if I do it to be nice, or because I think Donna expects it, or because it represents some form of possession. A way of keeping Donna dependent on me. A way of diminishing her strength. A way of showing my superiority. We’ve been together for a long time. We have our patterns and our habits. I don’t want to clip Donna’s wings, or be patronizing. I would prefer my chivalry to be generous rather than restrictive. I am not sure it is possible. I am not sure that I can honor Donna’s femininity until I can accept my own. Note: I started thinking about these issues at the Butch Voices 2013 conference. I attended a workshop on Butch Misogyny and another workshop on Everyday Oppression, where we discussed microagresssions.  I still think it is possible to be butch and/or transmasculine and not be a misogynist, but I don’t think it is easy.  Authenticity butch Butch-Femme Chivarly femininity femme Gender genderqueer lesbian Microaggression Misogyny relationships transgender Masculinity and Misogyny  It started when I ran out of shampoo. I walked over to Molton Brown to get a new bottle. Molton Brown makes liquid soap, shampoo, and body wash products. They are all scented. Very British. I used to shop for personal care products in the health food store. I got turned on to Molton Brown in a bed and breakfast we stayed at in Bath, England, in 2002. Donna could not get me out of the shower because I was sudsing up with the comps. I got hooked. I like Brooklyn Brewery beer, but I don’t want to wear it. I hadn’t used strongly scented products before. My Dad smelled of Brylcreem, Dutch Masters cigars, and Miller High Life. I didn’t want to smell like him. I wanted to smell good, but I didn’t know how. It was a B&B that catered to gay men. This gave the products a masculine, or at least metrosexual, cachet. Good enough for a butch. I fell for the “Vitalizing Vitamin AB+C.” It is a citrusy scent that makes me imagine that I am a large clean lemony fish swimming in the Mediterranean. I know this is an awkward metaphor; usually the lemon doesn’t get on the fish until the fish is dead and on the grill. I just like how the stuff smells. The salesman tells me that the shampoo and conditioner I use were discontinued and are no longer available. I walked around the small shop looking at the wares. They recently rearranged the shelves by gender and product type. I was testing a green Eucalyptus body wash when the salesman said to me “A lot of women won’t try a product that is in our men’s line.” I was busted. We both knew I wouldn’t try a product in their women’s line. What makes a soap or a shampoo gendered or androgynous? The color? The fragrance? The name? Is it all marketing? Why would I consider the Black Peppercorn body wash but not the Pink Pepperpod? Which would I buy for Donna? How do I separate what I like from which side of the store it is on and how does that change my perception of what it smells like? Does pink have a scent? Is it good on butches? President Roosevelt, age 2 1/2, in 1884. This type of outfit was considered normal for a boy. Why should I hesitate to buy a pink body wash if I like how it smells? How did pink and blue get so charged? According to Jo Paoletti, the author of Pink and Blue, before 1900, in the United States, babies wore white (easy to bleach) and all infants/young children wore dresses (see FDR on the left). In the early 1900’s there was an effort to gender pastel colors, but it wasn’t until 1940 that pink and blue became binary colors. Starting around 1985, color coding for children’s clothing became increasingly binary and inflexible. Color coding has spread to almost every product marketed to children. Why color code your soaps along the gender binary? Why make me have a Riley like rant just because I want to buy some shampoo? In the end, I bought a bottle of amber “Cleanshine Quillaja Hairwash” and a bottle of bright yellow “Fresh Bushukan Citrus Body Wash.” From the men’s side. Next time I’m in Integral Yoga, I’ll pick up some gender-neutral unscented deodorant, cinnamon toothpaste, and white dental floss.  I’m not going to try either the Barbie or the Spiderman toothpaste anytime soon. Notes: I am in the middle of Jo Paoletti’s “Pink and Blue: Telling the Boys from the Girls in America”. It is a fascinating and informative book about the history of children’s clothing. I also like her blog. I found out about the Riley rant while I was telling Donna about the book. We were sharing a smoked tofu panini at ‘sNice Cafe and the guy sitting next to us interrupted our conversation to show us the video on You Tube.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch femme Gender genderqueer Hair products Jo Paoletti lesbian Molton Brown Pink and Blue transgender What Do Butches Smell Like?  Randy Sides passed away on September 23, 2013. His memorial service was last week. I cried all the way through it. Randy had a long battle with cancer; he struggled to stay alive. He did not want to abandon his wife, Tracey, or their dogs (Butch, Dolce, and Mickey – “the boys”). He was only 58. He should have had more time. Randy Sides I met Randy and Tracey in 1993 or 1994, after I got my first dog, Lena. We ran our dogs on the broken down piers off the West Side Highway. It was illegal. It was unsafe. Dogs ran onto the highway, there was broken glass on the pier, there was always garbage that the dogs wanted to get into. Randy and Tracey worked with the authorities for years to establish a community dog run (The West Village Dog Run). They wanted to provide a protected and clean space for the dogs. The run is my haven. Randy and Tracey always had at least two dogs, and up to five dogs. Randy was predeceased by Zachary, Rudy, Billy, Jesse, Miko, and Lyle. They were all lucky pups. I hope they are with him. Randy was a sweetheart. He bought an old townhouse in the far West Village. He could do everything; plumbing, electrical, plaster, paint. He worked in banking, and could speak finance. He was a rock-climber. You could ask him any question and he would give you sound advice, whether it was about what kind of paint to use in your kitchen, how to layer for the cold, or what was the best way to refinance your mortgage. Randy could evaluate your level of knowledge and speak to you without condescending. He set a tone for the run. Both Randy and Tracey made me feel welcome. Gracie hovers near Randy at the dog run Halloween Party in 2011. She is in the bottom corner dressed as “Occupy Wall Street.” Randy was always tinkering with something at the run (holiday lights, the hose and the water spigot, the lock on the gate). He loved equipment. He liked to have a project to work on. He liked to get it right. Gracie adored Randy. She always sought him out for a pet. If I was angry at her for barking or being a nuisance she ran to Randy for cover. He would protect her. He knew his way around dogs. He had good hands. Randy was on chemotherapy for years. He did not complain. He was lanky to start with, and then began to get skinny, and then he got gaunt. If you asked him how he felt, he’d give a short positive answer, and then ask what was going on with you. Randy often walked the boys early in the morning; I’d see him when I was out with Gracie. The last time I saw him was about three weeks before he died. There was a classic green Jaguar parked on the corner, the kind with the driver’s side mirror mounted on the body, not the door. We talked about the car. I told him I’d see him later up at the run. He gave Gracie a rub down. The green Jaguar parked on Bank Street. Check out the mirrors. He didn’t feel good. He went to the hospital, was discharged, went back, and came home for hospice care. His last couple of weeks were difficult; mistakes were made by the doctors at the hospital and by the home hospice agency. He could have had more time. He could have been in less pain. Per his wishes, Randy died at home, with Tracey and the boys nearby. It is difficult for me to comprehend his death. I am a big procrastinator. I always feel like I have more time. That things can be put off, that there is no hurry. Donna is always reminding me that time is flying by, that I need to pay attention. That the clock is ticking, and it is always moving forward.  Doggerel authenticity butch death dog run dogs friendship New York City Randy Sides Relationship West Village The Passage of Time  October 19, 2013 was the first anniversary of my legal name change. It is the best thing I ever did for myself. I first thought about changing my name in my early twenties. A lot of butch women (wimmin, womyn, or w/o men) did. They chose names like Willow, Blue, Shad, Birch, and Sky. They used their initials like JP and DJ. They took nicknames; Barbara became Bobby, Andrea became Andy. They did not take names like Michael, David, James, or Robert (the top four boy’s names the year I was born). I told Donna that I was going to take an urban name like Concrete, Asphalt, or Fire Hydrant. She did not take me seriously. When I accepted that I was trans* I knew I had to change my name. I never liked Amy. I never felt like it fit me. I’ve written about recognizing that I could not be happy as an Amy, and I’ve written about the logistics of changing my name, but this is how I got my name. I thought it would be easy to pick a new name. It wasn’t. At first, I let my thoughts drift to different names. Nothing clicked. Then I concentrated. The name had to swing both ways, like Randy, Sandy, or Terry. It had to be suitable for my generation (no Aidans, Jaydens, or Justins). I had to be comfortable using it professionally. It had to sound right with my last name. Donna had to take it seriously. I went to the library and took out “How to Name Your Baby” books. I looked at lists of Biblical names, and lists of Hebrew names with interesting meanings. I thought about Dov (bear in Hebrew). I thought about Ravi (sun in Hindi, originally from Sanskrit). I thought about Rahm, Theo, Ray, Leif, Rayfield, Walker, Corey, and Dylan. I found fabulous dog names (Beckett, Hudson, Echo, Cocoa, Mango, Yogi, Spike, and Bagel). But none of the human or canine names felt quite right for me. I didn’t want a name that might end up feeling silly or pretentious. I’m not a dog. I waited it out. I got impatient. Every day I walked to work and thought about names. Over and over. I’d say them out loud. I’d look at myself in store windows and call myself by the name. I’d practice introducing myself to thin air. I was considering settling on Charley. Every morning I go to the Starbucks in my office building, in the Financial District. I am known there as “Grande dark personal cup.” I have a Starbucks loyalty card, and for every 12 drinks I buy I get a reward. I don’t use my freebie for another $2.29 Grande, I want my money’s worth. I get something pricey. I’ve read that the most expensive drink you can get at Starbuck’s is a Quadriginoctuple Frap, but I usually get a three shot latte. I order it hot in the winter and iced in the summer. It is supposed to be a treat, not a dare. I never get the freebie at my regular branch. I don’t want to confuse my regular baristas by changing my order. They know exactly what I want when I walk in. I went to the Starbucks on 8th Avenue and 13th Street, and I asked for a triple iced latte for Amy. The barista took my order, wrote on the cup, and swiped the reward off my card. Next thing I knew another barista was holding up a drink asking “Jamie?” The moment I heard him say it I knew that Jamie was my name. I thanked him more profusely than anyone has ever thanked a barista in Starbucks history. Note: This post got its name from “The Name Game” by Shirley Ellis. Starbucks got its name from the first mate, Starbuck, in Herman Melville’s “Moby Dick.” I got my name from a barista at Starbucks.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity Barista butch genderqueer Herman Melville lesbian Name change queer Starbucks transgender Transition The Name Game  My first tipping point was the summer between kindergarten and first grade. I developed a crush on Sandy and I developed a way to deal with my world. It was the summer my grandfather died from lung cancer. It was a hot New York summer. We lived in an apartment that was not wired for air conditioning. My grandmother decided that she should take us (my mother, my brother and me) for a couple of weeks to Sacks Lodge in the Catskills. My Dad took the bus up from the city on weekends. Sacks Lodge had a day camp and a children’s dining room for breakfast and lunch. They kept us busy and out-of-the-way until dinner. Sandy worked in the dining room. She was 17, and had long blond hair pulled back in a pony tail. I wanted Sandy to pay attention to me, but I was tongue-tied in her presence. I could barely tell her whether I wanted Cheerios or Frosted Flakes. I watched her work the room. I was envious if she ruffled a kid’s hair, or put her hand on their shoulder. One day I saw her lift up this kid, Tyler, and give him a big hug and a twirl. I wanted to be Tyler. That night in bed I pretended I was Tyler. I imagined that Sandy picked me up and gave me a hug and held me tight. It felt good and right. I fell asleep hugging my pillow and imagining that it was Sandy. I knew two things. I loved women and I wanted to be a boy. I never backed down from those thoughts. I didn’t discuss them either. I recognized the complexities. I wasn’t supposed to want affection from people outside of my family. I wasn’t supposed to be attracted to women. I wasn’t supposed to want to be a boy. I wasn’t supposed to feel so good when it all came together. I suspected it was perverse because I couldn’t stop myself from returning to that image. I did not restrain myself. There were a string of other crushes. More elaborate scenarios. Daydreams. Every night I fell asleep, a boy in some woman’s arms, hugging my bolster. It remained my secret. It remained unlabeled. It remained unexamined. I didn’t know exactly what it meant, but I knew that this was not what girls were supposed to dream about. I kept hoping that I would magically turn into a boy and then I hoped that I would magically outgrow the wish. I thought I might outgrow it when I left home for college. Or when I came out. Or when I took a lover. Or when I got into a serious relationship. Or when I started therapy. But I did not outgrow it. I did not talk about it. Shame and silence. For many years I accepted the duality of a separate inner life and a separate outer life. My inner life seemed more real and more compelling. I struggled to be present. Then I had my second tipping point. In the middle of a session I corrected my therapist and blurted out “I’m not a girl.” This time I started talking, and I may never stop. Note: Malcolm Gladwell wrote the book “The Tipping Point” which is subtitled “How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference.”  While the book is about how ideas, trends, and social behaviors spread, it is also about the moment that those ideas seed themselves and how individuals respond to them. While we think our “Aha!” moments are purely personal, Gladwell discusses how they are manipulated by outside sources. I have no idea why I experienced my tipping points exactly when I did, nor can I pinpoint any other influences. But that doesn’t mean they are not there.  Authenticity butch crushes Gender genderqueer lesbian Malcolm Gladwell queer relationships therapy Tipping Point transgender The Tipping Point  Roman mosaic – Conimbriga, Portugal My mother was a bully. She was abusive. I thought it was my fault. She wanted a normal child and she got me instead. My mother felt cheated. She wanted a daughter. I was supposed to be sweet and polite, neat and nicely dressed, smart but deferential. I was supposed to go along with the plan. My brother complied. I resisted. Resistance is not the same as doing what you want.   She would suggest I do something, then threaten me, then yell at me, then punish me. Little things. Why don’t you want to join the Brownies? Don’t you want a Barbie? Why don’t you put on the dress your grandmother bought you? What is wrong with you? Why can’t you be like the other girls? Did you look at yourself in the mirror? You can’t go out like that. You can’t go out until you apologize. You want something to cry about? I’ll give you something to cry about. You’ll be sorry you ever set foot on this earth. I’ll rip you limb from limb. I knew I was the problem. I knew there was something wrong with me. My mother was judgmental about everyone and everything. I thought that was normal. I thought all adults walked around looking at everyone else and critiquing them. Their mannerisms, their clothes, their speech, their actions. My mother found fault with every restaurant, every play, every concert. She said she had high standards. My mother was a sourpuss. I tried to eke out small pleasures. I read. I listened to music. I didn’t show a lot of exuberance or enthusiasm. I kept quiet about things I liked. I didn’t want her to spoil them. I learned how to constrain myself. I struggle to turn it off. To stop judging myself. To stop judging others. My mother said she would have been satisfied if I only appeared to be conventional. If I wore dresses to work, put on lipstick, worked on Wall Street. Even if I was a lesbian. But she could not tolerate my obvious queerness, my obvious masculinity. I struggle to stop judging my butchness and my transness, and to stop judging how others choose to define and manage their gender and sexual identities. To accept that there is nothing inherently wrong with me; that I am not the problem. To let go of trying to change my nature. To embrace my contradictions instead of trying to constrain them. I need to accept that I am unwilling to see myself as a girl/woman despite all physical evidence to the contrary. That I expect to see a boy/tomboy in the mirror while I keep seeing an adult. That I cross-dress and present as butch/masculine although I want to be invisible (i.e. I don’t want to be seen as a freak or deal with other people’s confusion). My mother would have a lot to say about all of this, none of it helpful. She would blame me for being naive, unrealistic, and lazy (unwilling to do the work to change). She’d tell me that it was time to turn over a new leaf and start acting like a lady. I have to keep reminding myself that she was wrong. That she was trying to crush me. That I survived her, with my contradictions intact. Note: Next week Donna and I will be on vacation in Oaxaca, Mexico. I will be will be reading, but not posting. Donna will be exuberant and enthusiastic and I will try to not constrain myself. Particularly in the central market.   Authenticity Barbie bullying butch cross dressing Gender identity genderqueer Judging lesbian Mother queer transgender Embracing Contradiction  Louise Brooks, flapper icon My mother took me shopping for my first bra during the first week of 7th grade. I was a chubby prepubescent eleven year old. It wasn’t clear if I had breasts or chest flab. We took a trip to a store with a back room and an old lady wearing a cardigan. She wielded a tape measure. I took off my shirt and my undershirt and she wrapped it around me, proclaiming “38AA.” I didn’t want to wear a training bra. I wanted to wear my undershirt. My mother wanted to make a lady out of me. By any means necessary. I developed into a C cup. I also developed two survival mechanisms. The first was blinders; I tried not to see my breasts. The second was layers; I buried my breasts under a pile of clothes. Not seeing your breasts takes a lot of effort. It is like living behind a four-foot tall fence. I only looked at myself from the shoulders up. The rest was a blur. Layers provided a buffer between me and the world. Except in extreme heat, I wore a T-shirt under a long-sleeved shirt, topped with a sweater or sweatshirt. I wore a lot of navy blue. I never wore horizontal stripes or shirts with graphics. I didn’t want anyone to stare at my breasts. When I turned 17, I started shopping for my own bras. No lace, no wires, no stays. I ended up with low impact sport bras that were comfortable, but not feminine. Appropriate for a butch. I didn’t pay attention to compression or flattening because I wasn’t peeking. I didn’t consciously experience chest dysphoria because I averted my eyes. What you don’t see doesn’t exist. I started looking when I starting using free weights at the gym. I wanted to use good form. I worked out in front of a full length mirror. I could not avoid my breasts. Only once in American history has being flat chested been considered fashionable. During World War I, women were encouraged to support the war effort by giving up their steel boned corsets. Between the end of WWI and the 1929 crash, flapper style became popular. The flapper silhouette was slim, straight lined, and flat chested. Louise Brooks (in photo above) was a classic flapper Hollywood star. Women who were full-figured bound their chests with an undergarment like the Symington Side Lacer. Bras as we know them were not manufactured until the 1930’s. National Geographic has an interesting 5 minute video on the history of bras here. I don’t want to trade-off the physical comfort of a bra for the psychological comfort of binding. My current bra is Phoebe by Moving Comfort. I know I am wearing it, but it is comfortable enough to wear all the time. My breasts are much less noticeable, than with a regular bra, but I can see the scoop neck bra line and the racerback straps through my T-shirt. I’d like invisibility. I also have an Air M Velcro Short Binder from Love Boat. It uses a double layer of Spandex, it is adjustable, and it is easy on and easy off due to the side entry Velcro. It looked a lot more comfortable than the Underworks step-in or pull-over surgical style binder. I am ambivalent about it. There is a thin line between a heavy-duty compression sports bra and a light weight binder. I can see the difference in the mirror. It is subtle, but I like it. I ordered the binder to see if being flatter reduced my overall dysphoria, and to see what I would look like if I had top surgery. There are days that top surgery seems like the pathological idea of a desperately unhappy person, and days that top surgery seems natural and reasonable. There are days when I can manage to avoid thinking about my chest. I get up, get dressed, and live my life. No dysphoria. There are days when I get up, hate putting on a bra, wish I had a masculinized chest, and I think about top surgery. There are days when I am envious of every person, male or female, cisgender or transgender, who isn’t wearing a bra. There are days when I wish I were like them.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity binder bra butch dysphoria genderqueer Louise Brooks queer Sports bra top surgery trans* transgender Chest Envy (Freud Was Wrong)  This is the shirt on the Gustin model, not me. While on vacation, at the beach, in Gloucester, I experienced a moment of mind/body congruence. It was fleeting, but notable. I was getting dressed to take a walk. I put on a new gray T-shirt, old olive hiking shorts, and gray sneakers. The new T-shirt looked good on me. I looked in the mirror and thought “If I saw a guy coming down the street wearing this outfit, I’d think that he was nicely, if monochromatically, put together. I’d make a mental note of it.” I liked how I looked in the mirror. There was no dysphoric distortion. That sentence should be in bold caps. I LIKED HOW I LOOKED IN THE MIRROR. One day, I hope this will be a normal, daily, event. It doesn’t happen often enough, but the possibility exists. I’ve chosen my own clothing since I was old enough to get working papers and an after school job. My mantra was “everything goes with blue jeans”. Since then I’ve owned and worn a steady supply of T-shirts, flannel shirts, button-downs, sweat shirts, and jeans. I’ve bought lots of clothing that I liked in the catalog or in the store. I liked them in my dresser drawer or hanging in my closet. When I wore them, though, they didn’t look right on me. The clothes were simultaneously too loose, too tight, and too long. I was too short and too round, and too female. The solution was to never look in a mirror. The obvious question is: why didn’t I buy clothing that fit me properly? Or flattered me? I knew that women’s clothing fit me better than men’s, but I didn’t want to wear it, even if I was the only person on earth who knew that it was made for women. I wanted to wear men’s clothing and disappear into masculine thin air. I ignored the drooping crotch, the crumpled up pants leg, the shirt button gaping at the chest, and the shirt bagging out at the waist when I tucked it in. I believed that if I could button all the buttons, or zip up the fly, then it fit. I didn’t understand that even if it did “fit” it didn’t guarantee that it looked good on me. Every once in a while I lucked out and found something that worked. Mostly, I wore duds. I had an inner picture of myself as male, but it was smashed to pieces every time I tried on clothing in front of a mirror. It’s taken five years of transness (weight loss and top surgery) for me to stop flinching at my own reflection, to bring the inner and outer pictures together. I’m almost at the point where I can objectively try something on and tell if it fits. Sometimes it even looks good. Donna tells me it takes patience, persistence, practice, serendipity, and empathy to find clothes that fit and look good. I prefer science and research. A few months ago, to prove my point, I measured four different T-shirts that I think fit me properly (a boy’s XL, two men’s smalls, and a men’s medium). The chests were between 19.5 and 20.5 inches wide. The lengths were between 25 and 27 inches, back collar to hem. The sleeves were between 7 and 8 inches long, from the shoulder seam. I measured some of my other T-shirts and they were all too long. Some were off on all three dimensions. I order most of my T-shirts on-line. Some manufacturers list the dimensions of each garment. Others will provide them upon request, by chat. The Gap Essential Crew in small meets my criteria. The gray T-shirt came from Gustin; there is nothing special or magic about it. It is 20 inches wide and 26 inches long, with 7.5 inch sleeves. Gustin considers that a men’s medium. I consider it perfect. Notes: The website Threadbase has an interesting chart by manufacturer for T-shirt chest width and length. It shows how much variation in sizing there is between brands, and how one person’s small is another person’s medium. It helped me measure my shirts, request dimensions, and stop ordering shirts that I know will be too wide, too narrow, or too long. I’m still slowly building a wardrobe that I like (I’d like a few more Proper Cloth custom button-down shirts). It would be great if I could feel the mind/body congruence wearing a potato sack, but I’m happy when I find it in a good shirt and jeans.  Body Image and Clothing butch ftm genderqueer Gustin lesbian mirrors non-binary Proper Cloth queer self-esteem t-shirts transgender Mind/Body Congruence and a Gray T-Shirt   I hit my goal at Weight Watchers. It took me 15 months to lose 25 pounds. At 140 pounds (5’4″) I am solid, not svelte. In Levi’s speak, I’m down from a snug 36 inch waist in a “relaxed” fit to a comfortable 32 inch waist, even in a “slim straight” cut. I haven’t worn 32’s since the last millennium. I’m ready to celebrate. I wrote here about the incongruity of joining Weight Watchers. How it is geared towards straight, conventional, suburban women. Soccer Moms and Grandmas. Other women talk about losing weight to feel more attractive, to look better for a wedding or family reunion, to fit into a particular dress. Every week I weigh in, attend the meeting, and feel like an outsider. Not because I’m not fat enough, but because I am gender trespassing. Last week Mindi, my group leader, asked me to talk in the meeting about how I felt before I started Weight Watchers, and what I learned while doing it. This is a summary of what I said. For years I ignored how I looked; I was in denial. I lived as a boy in my head and as a butch lesbian in my external life. I managed the contradiction by eating and drinking myself numb. My mother and grandmother would say “you’d be pretty if you lost weight.” I did not want to be pretty. At one point I weighed 195 pounds. I don’t want to fit the stereotype of the dowdy, fat, middle-aged, butch lesbian. The kind you see on the street and think, ugh, those men’s pants don’t fit your hips, your stomach is hanging over your belt, your shirt is so tight the chest buttons are going to pop. I don’t want to feel like a flabby round peg crammed into a hexagonal slot. Some people manage to carry their weight with dignity and flair. They are full figured and handsome. I carry mine with casual frump. In order to lose weight I had to break being slim from being feminine. I had to disassociate being overweight from rebelling against being seen as a girl. I needed to make going to Weight Watchers feel as butch as going to the gym. I had to think of it as part of my imaginary training routine. When I looked for my masculine self in the mirror, I saw a chubby Elmer Fudd. I did not see a cute and handsome Jamie. Losing weight changed the shape of my body. I no longer look round. I am streamlined except at the bust. Weight Watchers is not top surgery (that is another post). Now, when I look in the mirror, I see a cuter Elmer Fudd that also looks a lot like Jamie. The hard part is running in place; eating and drinking at a level that allows me to stay at this weight. I don’t want to slide back into sloth. I don’t want to gain the weight back. One of the things I like about Weight Watchers is that what you eat while losing is exactly what you eat to maintain your weight. I know I can do this because I’ve been doing it. But I’m scared that I’ll wake up fat again. It would be great if I could separate eating, body size, and weight from gender. Meanwhile, I will think of Popeye eating his spinach, and imagine him adding more fruit to his diet, taking a smaller portion of whole wheat pasta, and only drinking a beer on Sunday while out with Olive Oyl. Note: I just finished “Born Round” by Frank Bruni, the former restaurant critic of The New York Times. It is a great book about eating and overeating.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity body image butch Diet Gender genderqueer lesbian queer trans* transgender Weight loss Weight Watcher Touchdown  Last week I took Gracie to the Vet for her annual check-up. We were a few weeks early, but something was going on with her gastrointestinal system. Gracie hates the Vet. To get her there I have to go on a roundabout walk that just happens to end at their door. Halfway down the block she realizes where we are, stiffens up, digs into the concrete, and refuses to budge. Her eyes narrow into little slits. I’ve betrayed her again. In the waiting room I sweet talk her and give her a biscuit. I scratch her ears and tell her she is a good girl. She is anxious. She whines. I’m embarrassed that my dog is a bad patient. Each visit she is a bit more obstinate. Each visit she has to wear “a party hat” so the Vet can draw blood, take her temperature, and give her shots.  She doesn’t like it, and it is a tussle to get the muzzle on properly. She is fear aggressive, and it takes two of us to get it on safely. Gracie would not pose in a “party hat” for me. This is a better behaved dog. Gracie is six, middle aged but juvenile.  Something she has in common with me. The stool and blood tests come back; she has a little giardia, nothing to worry about, it has been going around. They give me five packets of a powder. I mix one a day into her dinner. I pick up some heartworm nuggets and Frontline. I pay the bill. Hopefully, we won’t be back until next year. I stare at the telephone unable to make the phone call, unable to cross off “make appointment with gynecologist” from my list.  I hate going even though I am sure the doctor is a lovely person. I am way overdue, but I feel fine. For years I didn’t go to a doctor. I wasn’t on birth control, I didn’t want children, I never got sick. I only started going during peri-menopause when I began hemorrhaging from fibroids. I had huge fibroids. Depending upon the surgeon’s preference for sports or food metaphors I had either softballs or grapefruits. I was determined to go through a natural menopause, and thought I could tough it out. I couldn’t. After two surgeries to remove reoccurring fibroids I acquiesced and had a partial hysterectomy (uterus out, cervix and ovaries remain). Looking back, I don’t know why I resisted having my uterus removed. I had read up and done my research. The hormones are in the ovaries and find their way into your bloodstream without the uterus, so there was no need to go on hormone therapy.  If you keep your cervix there is minimal loss of sexual responsiveness. My system had to go through a little internal nerve rewiring but within a few months I was fine and had orgasms that I couldn’t complain about. I felt better almost immediately. I was, and still am, ecstatic to not have my period. I never acknowledged how much I detested getting it. How uncomfortable it made me feel. My body betraying my mind. My denial ran to not keeping track of it; every month it seemed like a surprise. Cramps and crankiness. I always seemed to be out of tampons and Advil Extra Strength. Each visit to the gynecologist freaks me out and kicks up all sorts of traumatic dust. I don’t like having anyone else touch me there or poke around. I tell myself that I can not wait until something is wrong; I have to go in for a visit. I try to psych myself up to make the call. I have to be a grown up. I remind myself that if you are an adult with some combination of a vagina, ovaries, a cervix, and a uterus you need to go in for a check-up. For preventive maintenance. Doesn’t matter if you identify as gay, straight, butch, femme, transgender, female or male. But I wish someone else would make the appointment, snap the lead on my collar, walk me there, put on the muzzle, and pay the bill.  Doggerel butch genderqueer lesbian Menopause queer transgender Uterine fibroid Women's Health Check-ups  L’shana tova. May you be inscribed and sealed for a good year. For Rosh Hashanah, I am resolving to stop making excuses for my behavior and tell the truth. I spent a lot of years lying outright, and then I spent a lot of years avoiding and omitting details. This is a list of excuses that I have used. I have actually said all of these things during the past year. Each is true, but not the truth. You can figure it out. Backpacks are more sensible than purses. They leave your hands free and are better for your posture. It is hard to walk briskly with a purse. I keep a Leatherman pocket tool in my backpack because  you never know when you are going to need a corkscrew, a bottle opener, pliers, or a saw. I can get by with just my wallet, my iPhone, and my keys. Who needs to carry all that stuff and rummage around for your credit cards? I wear men’s sneakers because I have wide feet. I only wear comfortable and sturdy shoes because I walk six to eight miles a day. Keen, Merrell, and Timberland are hard to wear out. I am rough on shoes. I wear a sports bra instead of a regular bra because I walk a lot and I don’t want to bounce. If I was trying to bind I’d wear a real binder not a sports bra. I don’t shave my legs or my arm pits because it is barbaric. Who decided that women should shave there?  Just one more useless thing to occupy your time. I don’t use any make-up, perfume, or hair “products” because I don’t like the scent. I don’t bleach, shave, or pluck my “mustache” because hiding it would bring more attention to it. Chin hairs are natural. So are eyebrows. They are staying on my face. Short hair is practical. I like to get up, shower, wash my hair, towel dry, and go. I don’t dye my hair because all those chemicals are bad for you. The gray is distinguished. I like men’s jeans and pants because they have better pockets (see wallet above). Women’s jeans have dorky short front pockets; most women’s slacks don’t even have back pockets. I prefer men’s jackets (GORE-TEX, fleece, or insulated) because they have more/secured pockets. I like jackets that have an inside zipper chest pocket. For my wallet. I wear plain cotton hipster briefs because they are breathable and comfortable (I omitted saying that I also wear cotton/spandex striped or flowered guy’s boxer briefs for which even I will admit there is no excuse except that they are fun and make me feel good). I wear blue jeans because everything goes with blue jeans. I don’t look good in pastels. I am not an Easter Egg. Although I used to only wear navy, black, pine green, and maroon, I now also wear pink, red, and orange under the right circumstances. Rimless glasses do not interfere with my range of vision. I don’t like seeing the world through plastic frames. I drive a Subaru Outback because it is practical. You never know when you are going to need all wheel drive. My Subaru carries more stuff than most SUV’s and gets better mileage. I lift weights because I want to be stronger. I like the taste of beer. I changed my name because my birth name didn’t fit me (too suburban 1950’s).  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch fashion Gender genderqueer lesbian queer Rosh Hashanah tools transgender truth No More Excuses  Anna P. 1922, Germany When I was a five I was a tomboy. At night, I wished to wake up in the morning and be a boy. This is not unusual. It is a naturally occurring phenomenon. Some girls feel this way. Some girls feel this way so much and for so long that they manage to become someone other than a teenage girl. Someone other than an adult woman. I knew what I was not. I’ve had a difficult time accepting what I am and figuring out what to call myself. Labels and authenticity do not mix. In Kindergarten, I wouldn’t play house unless I could be the daddy. I refused to play with baby dolls, or toy kitchens, or plastic vegetables. Instead, I stuck to blocks, books, puzzles, and stuffed animals. I knew what I was doing. I grew up to be a gender non-conforming Civil Engineer who reads a lot, does Ken-Ken, and plays with my dog. In second grade I developed my long term strategy. The school librarian asked me why I was only taking out boy’s books. I shrugged my shoulders. I hadn’t realized it was obvious. I started taking out twice as many books. For every two boy’s books I took out two girl’s books. Even Steven. The librarian left me alone. I only read the boy’s books. Adults paid attention, but it was superficial. I could be a boy under the radar. I had to be a little less blatant and claim it didn’t mean anything. I didn’t have crushes on David Cassidy or Bobby Sherman. I didn’t wear flavored lip gloss or paint my nails. I could avoid a lot of girly things by claiming they were stupid or boring. I had more important things to do (like develop crushes on every female teacher I ever had). I kept reading. I was a boyish and asexual teenager. Never dated. Never shaved my legs or under my arms. If anyone asked why I told them it was an unnatural and barbaric modern custom. I fell in love with Stella, broke-up with Stella, and came out as a butch lesbian at 17. I didn’t masturbate until I was over the age of consent; I had to read a book with diagrams to figure out what to do. I kept reading. I knew that I was hiding my desire to be a boy, but being a butch lesbian offered community and the prospect of being in a relationship with a woman. Being butch was as close as I could get to expressing my desire to be a boy. I knew I had a woman’s body, but I also knew I desperately longed to be a boy. This is my butch experience. This is my transgender experience. Transgender is a wildcard. It changes the game. It offers up a lot of options, some of which I am choosing (see this post on pronouns and this post on name change). The changes I am making (and not making) do not make me any more or any less transgender. My experience is that I couldn’t stop wanting to be a boy, and I couldn’t get used to being a woman. I am incorrigibly gender non-conforming. I’m still not sure what to call myself (butch, queer, genderqueer, bigender, trans*, transgender) even though I know who I am. Even though I knew exactly who I was when I was five. Note: The picture of Anna P. is in the public domain. She was photographed by Magnus Hirschfeld in 1922 for his book Sexual Intermediates.  Authenticity Bobby Sherman butch David Cassidy Gender genderqueer labels lesbian lgbt queer transgender Labels and Authenticity Do Not Mix  I’ve got a lot spinning around in my head from the Butch Voices 2013 conference. I want to share two highlights (other than just being around several hundred butches for a weekend). First, Sinclair Sexsmith reading their piece “Unsolicited Advice to a New Butch.”  Click on the link and read it. Now. Second, the discussion on butch isolation in Diane Sabin and Elana Dykewomon’s workshop on Old Butches. I almost didn’t go to the Old Butches workshop. I didn’t want to be with a bunch of 1970’s era female identified and potentially trans-phobic butches. I didn’t want to hear a lot of groaning about pronouns and why we all can’t be happy being called she. I did not want to have to explain myself at Butch Voices. I know that wanting to avoid something is a good reason to go do it, even though the other workshops had a certain cachet. So I skipped the Flirt LIke You Mean It! workshop and went for the Old Butches instead. My reward was getting to sit next to the fabulous Jewelle Gomez. Yes, there were femmes at the conference too. The workshop had two main threads. One, that there are very few resources out there for aging butches when they need to change their housing, go into assisted living, or go into a nursing facility. Two, that butches have trouble reaching out and accepting assistance. This hit a nerve with me. I have taken good care of myself financially, but I have not always taken good care of myself physically or emotionally. The last couple of years I have made an effort to work out, lose weight, cut down on my drinking, and go to the dentist regularly. However, I don’t have a primary care physician, I haven’t had a colonoscopy, and I am overdue at the gynecologist and for a mammogram. I am avoiding all the girl stuff again. Donna is 26 years older than me. Although she is in good shape, she is beginning to complain that she is slowing down and does not have the same level of energy as she used to. She has peripheral neuropathy in one leg (which affects her walking speed and balance), and she has been in cardio rehab to handle minor heart damage. Donna is my life line. Without her I’d be a dog butch and a hermit. I rarely make phone calls; I am not on Facebook. If anything happened to Donna, I would be lost. I have no idea what I would do or whom I would ask for help. I can barely tolerate even thinking about it. Somehow I have managed to not talk about this in therapy. It tumbled out of me in the workshop. I’ve lost friends because they retired from my work place, because they moved out of New York, because I never called them back. I don’t have “our” friends’ phone numbers – if I needed to call someone I’d need to find Donna’s phone book. I don’t even have her doctor’s contact information. I rely on Donna to keep things organized, to keep things moving. I need to butch up. I need to accept that Donna may not be able to do this forever. That she may not be with me forever. The last event of the conference was a spoken word performance. I had to leave during the middle of it to catch my flight. Before I left, Sinclair Sexsmith read “Unsolicited Advice to a New Butch.”  If you didn’t heed my advice at the start of this post, go back and click on the link and read it. Now. Sinclair’s point is that there is more to being butch than being butch. The line “Cultivate your friendships before your breakups so you are not alone” hit me. I need to cultivate my friendships before I grow old, as incongruous as it seems for a boy to grow old. Note: Cherrie Moraga gave a thoughtful and provocative keynote address that dealt with the complexities of butch identity, gender non-conformity, gender-queerness, Xicana heritage, and feminism. I need to read it or listen to it again before I write about it. In the past, she was critical of trans men and butches who transitioned. This speech came from a different place. If I find a link, I’ll post it.  Butch Or Trans? butch Butch Voices 2013 Cherrie Moraga femme genderqueer lesbian queer SInclair Sexsmith transgender Report Back from Butch Voices 2013  Tomorrow I am going to San Francisco for a long weekend. The excuse is that I am going to the Butch Voices conference in Oakland. The truth is that I miss feeling like I am part of a community; I need my tribe. I’ve drifted out of my old communities (pacifist, AIDs activist, queer). I let friendships lapse, let Donna take control of our social life (not a criticism because otherwise we’d have no social life at all), and I spend too much time with Gracie at the dog run. I am lonely and need some contact. I’ve never found it easy to make friends; I trust people slowly. I need to be around someone a lot before I open up. I do best in situations where I am immersed with people for a long time. They get to observe me in action; I get to hang around them long enough to relax. I met Donna in the Women’s Pentagon Action; we spent a lot of time together on the picket line. I need the company of others who are butch, masculine of center, transmasculine, and/or transgender. I am not concerned with what words they use to self-identify. I want to find the other interlocking circles in my Venn Diagram. They don’t have to occupy the same space; they don’t need to be just like me. I don’t know where butch ends and transgender begins. I used to picture gender as two overlapping bell curves, the first for female and the second for male. I placed myself in the valley of the overlap (picture between the breasts). Then I realized that I didn’t know which binary the curves represented. Gender stereotypes, cultural norms of femininity and masculinity, wardrobe style? When I was a kid I gendered everything. I divided the world into either boy’s activity/behavior or girl’s activity/behavior. I only wanted to read boy’s books, play with boy’s toys, wear boy’s clothes. There was hardly anything that wasn’t gendered by either style or color (stuffed animals, a guitar, roller skates). It didn’t matter, I played with them as if I was a boy. I don’t want to define myself based on a linear scale of femininity or masculinity. I don’t want to place other people on a gender line to the masculine of me or the feminine of me.  I don’t want to place a value on anyone being less butch or more trans* than me. I don’t want to judge if someone is butch enough or trans* enough. I don’t want to be judged. I want to be seen and I want to be known. Last year I went for a day to the Philadelphia Trans-Health Conference. I attended some workshops and walked around the Convention Center. I had a shyness attack and a loss of confidence and barely spoke to anyone else. I was envious of the young guys who had top surgery; of their ease in their bodies and their handsomeness. I also saw shy guys staring at their i-phones, middle-aged butches trying to figure out if they should transition, and guys struggling through the awkward stages of starting testosterone. I saw myself in them and them in me. I am not sure how I will react at Butch Voices. I am in a different place this year; a little less freaked out by my transness and a little more accepting of my gender incorrigibility. I am packing my bag. For once, I am not worrying about what to wear.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity butch Butch Voices community femininity femme Gender genderqueer lesbian masculinity queer transgender Butch Voices  I was an overweight child. I was short and didn’t fit in clothes for my height. Everything had to be shortened. I popped buttons, busted seams, and split zippers. I could not be contained by my clothes. My mother took me shopping in the chubby department (now called girls plus). I didn’t mind being a butterball, but I wanted to shop in the boy’s husky section. I was rough on clothes. Especially girl’s clothes. In first grade I had a dress that was navy blue “dotted swiss” with red smocking across the chest. I detested it. I accidentally dropped hot dogs on it and spilled grape juice on it. I pulled at the smocking to snap it or stretch it out of shape. I told my mother I was clumsy. I could not outgrow that dress fast enough. I was teased at school for being fat. And for being a cry-baby. In my school pictures I don’t look obese, just pudgy. I stopped crying, but I could not stop eating. The girls kept teasing. I liked to eat. I had an insatiable desire to eat. I supplied myself with food by using my allowance and stealing small amounts of money from my parents. On my way to school, after breakfast, I’d go to Craig’s Bakery and buy a corn muffin. On my way home, I’d stop at Ess-A-Bagel, or at Ralph’s Pizzeria. On bad days I’d buy two bagels, and eat them before dinner. Some kids starve themselves to keep their breasts from growing and prevent menstruation. I was a kid who ate to suppress my feelings and to hide my body. I didn’t want to be a girl and I didn’t know what to do about it, except eat and wear boy’s clothing. I also had an active fantasy life. I confused anxiety with hunger; I ate to quiet my anxiety. It is only recently that I learned to tell the difference. I numbed myself with food and then I numbed myself with alcohol. When I first let myself feel the pain of not being able to be a boy it was almost unbearable. Now I can live with it. I’m no longer numb. I am also no longer fat. My BMI is now within the “normal” range for my height (5’4). I am learning (via Weight Watchers) how to feed myself. What combination of food, chocolate, wine, and working out allows me to maintain a weight that I will be comfortable at. It is embarrassing to admit that I had no idea what physical hunger felt like or how to satisfy it. I am gradually untangling eating and drinking from being butch and transgender. Losing weight will not transform me into a boy anymore than gaining weight did. It will not alleviate my dysphoria. It will not make my breasts disappear (I notice them more). Nothing I do can fix the past. Nothing can erase the pain. There is also no point in lugging the weight around with me, just to prove I suffered. The weight has outlived its purpose. I carried it for a long time. I don’t need to hide. The title of this post comes from the Beatles song “Golden Slumbers” – you can hear it here. In fantasy my name was Paul, after the Paul McCartney of The Beatles, circa 1964. My brother is named Jon, so I thought it would be a good match. It wasn’t until after I legally changed my name to Jamie that I realized I had chosen exactly the same initials as my brother – Jon Robert and Jamie Ray.  Body Image and Clothing Beatles body image bullying butch dysphoria fat genderqueer lesbian transgender Weight loss Weight Watchers Boy, you’re going to carry that weight…  It is the last day of July. The dog days of summer. It is hot in New York. Unless you stay in  your apartment with the air conditioning on you can not escape the heat. The sidewalks are hot, the subway platform is hot, the dog run is hot. I try to take Gracie in the evening once it cools down a little. Last week she wasn’t interested in going out for walks. She skipped a meal. When it is hot Gracie finds a cool place on the wood floor and lies down. She laps up some water and chews on an antler. I get lazy too. I skipped the gym; I went to the dog run and had a couple of beers. The dogs splashed around in the wading pool and then lay down on the hot pavement and watched us drink. I put on a couple of pounds and blamed it on Gracie. The summer is prime time for losing weight, but I am exactly where I was in April. I am still on Weight Watchers. I am still a few pounds short of my goal. Depending upon whether I view the pint glass as half full or half empty, this is either a success or a failure. Or it is an experiment to see what it takes to maintain my weight rather than have it creep back up. I’ve learned that I can’t suck down beers and skip going to the gym. I’ve got to cut down on the beer and work out if I want to see shoulder and back muscles. The dog days are mindless and static. They are not a time of deep thinking and reflection. I save that for September. This year Rosh Hashanah (Jewish New Year) starts at sundown on September 4; the earliest day that it can fall in the Gregorian calendar. I look forward to the ten days of reflection and repentance between Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur. It is a time to think about the past year, my successes and my failures. About what changes I need to make in the new year. I am Jewish, but I am not religious. It is ingrained in my thought process, my speech, my outlook, and my kitchen. I was raised to read, study, analyze, deliberate, reflect, interpret, and eat. It affects how I think about my body. How I think about being butch, being queer, and being trans*. I grew up in family that believed deeply in the American dream (or at least a German-Jewish middle class version of it). It was important to speak proper English (no Yiddish), to not talk with your hands,  and to not look too Jewish. There were long discussions about whether it was acceptable to get a “nose job” or to anglicize your last name. The line between assimilating (hiding your Jewishness) and integrating into the mainstream as a Jew. My family did not want to be marginalized with the greenhorns and the orthodox. They cared about what other people thought about them. For me, there are parallels between top surgery and nose jobs. I think about both in terms of dysphoria, cultural norms of beauty and handsomeness, body self-image, and reliance on the medical establishment. I am still thinking about top surgery. I do not want to assimilate, either by becoming a “good gay” and looking less butch, or by transitioning and going stealth. On a good day, I am happily gender non-conforming and all for integration. On a bad day, I feel weird and marginalized. Today, I am a boy with her dog, heading out to the dog run for a beer and some shade. Tomorrow is gym day.  Authenticity assimilation butch genderqueer lesbian queer Rosh Hashanah top surgery transgender Weight Watchers Yom Kippur The Dog Days of Summer  Whenever I hear myself referred to in the female gender I wince. It is a reflex. Whether it is an honorific like Miss or Ma’am, or one of the four pronouns (she, her, hers, herself), it feels wrong. Internally, I always correct the mistake. Lately, it has been irritating me. I wrote a post a while back about eliminating honorifics. Getting rid of Ms. was relatively easy and extremely satisfying. I did most of it on-line and made a few phone calls requesting the Ms. be removed from in front of my name. My mail now arrives addressed to Jamie Ray. None of my friends or co-workers have ever stuck a Ms. or Miss in front of my name unless they were being sarcastic. But they use pronouns. There are lots of pronouns. Most of them are gender-neutral or inclusive. My problem is with the third person singular. The personal subject (she), the object (her), the reflexive (herself), and the possessive (hers). Four words; eight if you count the male counterparts. I never thought of myself as a she-her-girl. I always though of myself as a boy who got sorted into the girl pile without anyone asking or checking. Growing up, I hated being called Amy, hated being referred to as a girl, and hated being called Miss. As I got older, I turned down the sound. I tuned out the words. I tried to ignore them. I know that my body is female and my legal sex is female. I know that she and her are grammatically correct, but they feel contradictory. Dissonant. I think of myself as a boy. I think of myself as trans*. I don’t think of myself as ze, hir, or zim. In my external life I am butch. A lot of butches don’t squirm at female honorifics and pronouns. I do. Fortunately, I think and write in the first person. So I can be me, Jamie. When I am talking one on one, the second person pronouns kick in (you, your, yours, and yourself). The third person singular only comes up in groups of three of more, or when someone is talking about me behind my back (which does not bother me as long as I don’t have to hear it). It is a problem in groups. When I changed my name, a few people asked me which pronouns I wanted them to use.  The question caught me by surprise. I hedged and told them that although I wasn’t comfortable with female pronouns, I also wasn’t comfortable with the alternatives. I kept the status quo. The truth is, I’d like them to use gender-neutral or non-binary pronouns. They match my name. It seems like a simple request, but I have not made it. It is the kind of request that invites questions. It is the kind of request that requires an explanation. And instructions. The next time someone asks me which pronouns I would like them to use I am going to tell the truth. I will ask them to use either Jamie, or the singular they pronouns (they, them, their). I will tell them that female gendered pronouns are inaccurate and awkward. I feel misgendered and misrepresented. It may be cumbersome for them to try to form new sentences, but it is a different kind of awkwardness. It is the clumsiness of making an effort to try something new. Inconvenient, but not impossible. English is not a dead language. New words are added and old words become obsolete. Semantic changes affect the meaning of words in common usage; syntatic changes affect our grammar. The word “transgender” was coined about 50 years ago. The word “cisgender” did not exist 20 years ago. Now it is in the Oxford Dictionaries. It is a fabulous word for explaining transgender. Using gender-neutral and non-binary pronouns may initially seem like a cross between playing Twister and Simon Says. Or like having two left tongues. It will not be easy. Substituting they, and avoiding she, her, hers, and herself, will occasionally result in an inelegant sentence. But is an awkward sentence that big a crime? In a few years it may sound natural. CN Lester recently posted a 24 part series of questions and answers on identifying as non-binary. Question 19 deals with pronouns. You can find it on their blog “a gentleman and a scholar.” I highly recommend it.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity butch dissonance Gender-neutral pronoun genderqueer grammar identity lesbian non-binary transgender The Third Person Singular   I spent the July 4th holiday celebrating my independence. I cleaned out my closet. I also cleaned out my dresser drawers. I dumped everything out onto the floor. I kept all the clothes that I like in my current size and one size up. I gave away the rest. I am temporarily liberated from clothing I don’t like and won’t wear. I have space to spare. I threw out two bags of old clothes; three bags of practically new clothing went to the Housing Works Thrift Shop. I’ve done this before.  I sorted through an immense pile of Levi’s ranging from size 32 through 38 inches. Each incremental size in multiple colors and washes. I tossed “work clothes” in sizes 12, 14, and 16 petite. I weeded out a dozen turtlenecks that I can’t wear because they give me hot flashes. I eliminated T-shirts in colors that don’t look good on me (lemon yellow, chartruese, baby blue). New Yorkers are used to living in small apartments with insufficient closets. We don’t have basements and we don’t have attics. There are three approaches that we take; live like a monk, create unique storage spaces, or live like the Collyer Brothers. Neat freaks tend to go for the first two approaches. They build floor-to-ceiling bookcases in their hallways, buy fancy storage systems for their closets, and put rolling drawers under their beds. Clutterers go for option three. I stack my books sideways and two deep, stuff my sweaters onto  overflowing closet shelves, cram my T-shirts into drawers, and avoid doing my laundry because I have no place to put it once it is folded. Clutterers are recidivists. We make the same mistakes year after year. I periodically purged my closet of women’s clothing, but it kept creeping back in. There was a wedding, or a funeral, or a conference I needed to go to. I bought a blouse, wore it once, and put it back on a hanger in the closet. I once made a list of combinations of pants, shirts, and sweaters to wear to work. In the morning I put on the next outfit, and worked my way down the list until it was time to go to the dry cleaners and do the laundry. I refused to look in a mirror. I felt false. I tucked a pair of  jeans in my pack so I could change after work. I want to believe that dressing butch is a conscious fashion choice. It would be nice to shift out of casual butch-mode when the occasion requires it and slip into something else. I can’t do it. I still think there is something wrong with me for being unable to do “it”. I still have shame. I do not want clothing to have that kind of power over me. I do not want to accept that I am incompetent at getting dressed like an adult woman. I do not want to accept what the acuteness of my dysphoria means. I want to believe that I don’t like dressing up; I do not want to accept that I can not do it. That I can not outgrow myself. It is hard for me to accept failure, to accept that I have my limits. I expect to be able to do whatever I set out to do. I am persistent and stubborn. I do my research. I like to figure out puzzles. I like to solve problems. I am giving up. I am throwing in the towel. It is going to the Housing Works Thrift Shop.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch closet clutter failure Gender genderqueer lesbian thrift shops transgender Closet Case  How does someone decide between living as a butch lesbian or a trans man? What if you make the wrong choice? What if neither identity feels authentic? These questions stick with me through my journey. At first, and still to some extent, I was envious of trans men who were absolutely certain they wanted to transition. Who knew they were men. Who wanted everything to happen as fast as possible. Reincarnation. To make a clean break with their past. I watched videos and read blogs. Some were too pat. Too insistent that everything was fabulous. They weren’t struggling, except to get coverage for top surgery. They proudly documented their changes on testosterone week by week. Then I watched a video about going off testosterone. They stopped because it didn’t feel right. Because they didn’t like how they felt on it. Each detransition story I’ve heard is unique, but the unifying message is that they didn’t feel authentic being a man. It felt false, they didn’t recognize the face in the mirror, or they felt they’d lost their soul. Some accepted they were transgender, but were closer to genderqueer or non-binary than male. Some went back to butch. Some (re)embraced being female and gender non-conforming. I don’t know if it is better to transition quickly or slowly. The traditional medical-psychiatric transition is a slow one-size-fits-all process. I have too much ambivalence for the gatekeepers. Callen-Lorde uses the informed consent model. It allows me to tell the truth, do my own research, and make my own choices. I can set my own pace. I can make my own mistakes. Some detransition stories resonate with me. I wonder what would have happened if I had gone full strength ahead with an informed consent binary transition as soon as I realized I was trans. If I had believed that transition would solve all my problems. If I had a supportive partner and a therapist encouraging me to take testosterone. I didn’t go that route, so I can’t know how it would have turned out, whether I would have been happy or not. I might have realized a year later, with beard scruff and a deep voice, that I’d made a mistake. Instead, I meandered around trans and butch identities. I changed my name and got top surgery. I put off starting testosterone. I read transition and detransition stories the way I read warning labels on medicines. I want to know the expected effects and the potential side effects. The range of experiences, good and bad. What I’ve learned, unintentionally, is to trust my judgement and go at my own pace. To listen to, but not necessarily accept, advice. To accept that I’m probably not ever (never say never) going to follow the classic binary transition route and that I’m just as trans no matter which route I take. To be ready for a less than optimal result; to be ready for a worst case scenario. To take full responsibility for my actions and inactions. To not place the blame on my parents, partner, therapist, doctor, or surgeon. I respect women who detransitioned and still deal with dysphoria. Who are gender non-conforming and choose to live with all the crap that the heteronormative world throws at them. Who live with the permanent effects of testosterone and surgery.  I am not threatened by them telling their stories. They are telling their truth. Detransition stories are  often used by politicians, clergy, and journalists as reasons for limiting access to hormones and surgery. I would rather see them used as proof that one can make mistakes and live to share them. Notes: I wrote this post after reading crashchaoscats’ response to this article by Julia Serrano on Detransition, Desistance, and Disinformation. crashchaoscats also has a tumblr site and links to other detransition blogs. A heads up that many of the bloggers are radfems. The video about going off testosterone is by Jonah Womack (bluntedfsharp) on YouTube. Jonah stopped taking testosterone but did not detransition. On a separate issue I’m going on vacation to Gloucester MA, and will not be posting for two weeks. I’m packing two pairs of board shorts and two rash guards for the beach.  Authenticity butch detransition ftm Gender genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer testosterone transgender Transition What I’ve Learned From Women Who Detransitioned  Getting a haircut always lifts my mood. I like getting shampooed and having my scalp rubbed. I like the “gotcha” sound of the scissors; the buzz of the razor on my neck. I like the moment when the loose hair is brushed from my shoulders, the cape is whisked off, and I put my glasses on to see how I look. Haircuts make me feel butch. Haircuts make me feel like a boy. I am still getting used to seeing gray. For years, I only noticed the gray when my hair grew out; now it remains gray after the cut. I don’t want to color it. Boys don’t color their hair. I’ll live with the salt and pepper. I get a haircut cut every four weeks. Alan knows how I like it; he has tamed my cowlick. Alan is an “old school” gay.  He started cutting hair in the 1960’s, when becoming a hairdresser was one of the few viable career routes for a sissy boy. As a teenager he collected the signatures of actors and actresses in Shubert Alley. Last year the New York Times published a short article about him. Alan is always trying to get me to try “product.” He tells me not to worry, it is for guys with short hair. It gives your hair a sheen and keeps it in place. I don’t listen to him. I want to shower, towel dry my hair, run my hand over it, and be done. I don’t want to spend a lot of time in front of the mirror. I have short hair in my childhood pictures, starting as a toddler. My mother claimed it was easier to take care of. I usually had some form of a pixie cut, or a bowl cut with short bangs. When I started school, she wanted me to wear either a page-boy or a bob. My mother was determined to have me grow my hair out for first grade. I cut it myself. For a five year old, I did a pretty good job. A stylist needed to finish it up and even it out; in the end it was as short as I was aiming for. My mother cringed when people called me a boy, but I was allowed to keep my hair short. I grew my hair out on my own accord, when I was twelve. My brother wore his hair long; he looked like a rock star. I was a copycat. The problem was that he looked like a drummer and I looked like a teenage girl. When I cut my hair, I went to a barber shop instead of a hair salon. I pointed to a picture on the wall and said “I want my hair to look like that.”  I’ve kept it short and cropped ever since. According to the chart, I have a forward brush style (first haircut on the left, top row). Before puberty, all I needed to do to “pass” for a boy was to have a good hair cut and the right clothes. I wish it was still that easy. Through my mid-twenties, I was frequently read as a teenage boy. Now I am often superficially read as male, but it is fleeting and awkward. Without taking testosterone, I am unable to sustain it. There are too many gender markers that I am missing; voice, facial hair, height, and muscle/fat distribution. That is alright. I know how I feel. I experience the magic every time I get a haircut.  Body Image and Clothing aging authenticity butch genderqueer haircuts lesbian lgbt passing transgender A Little Off the Top  The last time I wore a dress, it was for my brother’s college graduation. It was the summer in-between my freshman and sophomore years. I had put on weight and my one pair of dress pants did not fit. I had not worn a dress in five years; not since my father’s funeral.  I borrowed an Indian hand-block wrap skirt from my ex-girlfriend. I had just come out to my mother. She was upset and angry. I wore the skirt to placate her. I could answer “Why do you have to be a lesbian?” better than “Why do you have to dress like a man?” I did not want to ruin Jon’s graduation. The dysphoria was unbearable. I swore I would never make that mistake again. Last month I attended Tariq’s middle school graduation (the son of my friend Alexis). Instead of caps and gowns, the boys were required to wear blue blazers and the girls were required to wear white dresses. The look was Gatsby-esque, except that this was a NYC public school in Harlem, not a party on the North Shore of Long Island. The girls (13 and 14 years old) wore sleeveless dresses that were short and showed cleavage. They had done their hair and nails. They preened for the cameras.  The boys looked like they had never worn jackets and ties before. They squirmed in their seats waiting for the ceremony to be over. I would have been one of the kids who found a way to avoid the ceremony. I have arranged much of my life around not wearing dresses. I did not have a Bat Mitzvah because I would not wear a dress. I told my parents it was because I did not believe in a god (true) and that it would be hypocritical to go through with it (true). The real truths were that I did not want to be part of a ceremony that celebrated girls becoming women, I did not want to get dressed up, and I did not have enough friends to invite to a party. I was not a bridesmaid at Jon’s wedding because I wouldn’t wear a bridesmaid’s dress. I told him I would participate if I could wear a tuxedo or an outfit of my choice. I went in slacks and a shirt and sat with my cousins. I went even though Donna was not invited; my mother did not want everyone to see that I had a lesbian lover. I did not want to ruin Jon’s wedding. I told them this was the last family function I would attend without Donna. I studied Civil Engineering because I could picture myself on a construction site. I work for a public agency with a lax dress code. I am unable to wear corporate drag (of either gender). I tried it and the dysphoria was paralyzing. I swore I would never make that mistake again. The title of this post is the same as a book by Daphne Scholinski “The Last Time I Wore a Dress.” It is a horrific story about a gender non-conforming teenager committed to a psychiatric hospital for reparative therapy. Dylan Scholinski now lives in Denver, Colorado, where he is an artist. This is a link to his website. My mother threatened to have me arrested and/or committed because of my temper and my gender presentation. I believe what saved me was the stigma; it would have been a narcissistic injury for her to have a child in a psychiatric unit. It was easier for her to believe that I was difficult and deviant than to accept that I was butch (and transgender). She kept up this pretense until her death. I wore jeans to her funeral.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch Dress dysphoria Gender genderqueer lesbian middle school mothers queer transgender The Last Time I Wore a Dress  Every year I make a resolution to do something about my swimsuit. Then the weather gets hot and I think about going to the beach. I have nothing to wear. My default for the last decade has been a black Speedo one-piece, with a racerback and a “shelf bra”. This is the most neutral women’s swimsuit that a butch can wear.  It’s the “women’s swimsuit” that throws me into dysphoria. There is no equivalent of Levi 501s for genderqueer swimming. Last year, my compromise was to wear a lightweight T-shirt and quick-dry shorts over the Speedo. I changed out of them right before I went in the water. When I got out, I toweled off, and put them on again over my damp suit. This is not an elegant solution, but it works. I don’t want dysphoria keep to me from swimming. I am fine once I am in the water. It is the distance from where my clothes are to the water that is the problem. It feels like a perp walk. The crime is impersonating a woman. My dad was hirsute. He had hair on his chest and his back.  When I was seven, I pretended to have a hairy chest, just like my dad’s. I imagined myself at the beach wearing trunks with a patch of curly hair going down to the waistband of my navy blue trunks. Twice in my life I have solved the swimsuit problem. The first time I was ten, at Camp Paragon for Girls, in the Adirondacks. I swam in the lake in a pair of navy blue camp uniform shorts and a dark T-shirt, no underwear. I did this all summer long. The counselors did not say anything. I buried my polka dot bathing suit at the bottom of my trunk, under my fossil collection. The second time I tackled the problem I was twenty-two.  I took a week’s vacation after I finished my Master’s thesis. I went to Provincetown. There was a clothing optional beach where people sunbathed. I swam for a week in a pair of Patagonia Baggies, shirtless. It was my last week of freedom before I started working. My swimsuit is the last vestige of my almost non-existent femininity. I have a pair of pants with a fly that zips on the left; I wear some shirts that button to the left. It is an odd convention that manufacturers use to prove that their clothes are gender appropriate. I notice the “lefties” but they don’t make me self-conscious the way my Speedo does. There are alternatives. There are women’s board shorts, tankini tops, and rash guards. There are men’s trunks, rash guards, and T-shirts. I may end up going to a sporting goods or surf shop to see what, if anything, fits. I should have started in January. If I let myself dream about what I would like to wear at the beach, I go back to Provincetown. A pair of swim trunks, and no top. A masculinized chest. I don’t want to picture myself topless with 38C’s. I can also see myself in swim trunks, and a rash guard or a T-shirt with a sports bra underneath. If all else fails, I will visualize myself in this photograph of surfers from 1932. Another black one-piece swimsuit in the mix. Update: See this follow-up post from 2014 – “Catch a Wave: My 2014 Swimsuit Challenge” I didn’t manage to get myself into the water in 2014. You can read about my attempts to procure the perfect genderqueer swimsuit, compression swim top, swimming binder, and butch swim outfit in my 2015 post here.    Body Image and Clothing authenticity beach butch Camp dysphoria genderqueer lesbian lgbt Provincetown queer resolutions Swimsuit transgender The Swimsuit Issue  I have a hard time asking for help or for directions. I like to figure things out for myself. I have a bookcase full of books on women’s studies, lesbian herstory, gay liberation, butch-femme dynamics, queer theory, and transgender rights. I’ve got another one full of cookbooks and dog behavior. But, the book that helped me the most was written by a straight, white, upper-class, married woman with children, who lives on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. It is a New York TImes best-seller. It is pop-psychology. Welcome to “The Happiness Project.” I was not trying to get happy. I was trying to understand why I was discontent and ill at ease in my life. Why I procrastinated. The answer was on page 18. Gretchen Rubin outlined her Twelve Commandments and I got stuck on the first one, which is “Be Gretchen.” “Be Gretchen” means to stop trying to be who you wish you were, and be who you actually are. Stop pretending to enjoy what you think you should enjoy, and acknowledge what you really do enjoy. Stop ignoring your true desires and interests, and spend your time, and money, on what you really want to do. When I read “Be Gretchen.” I realized that I could not “Be Amy.” No way. I was not an Amy, I was never going to be an Amy. I might be able to experience happiness but it was not going to be with the name on my birth certificate. I did not want to be defined by a girl’s name. I needed a new name. It was a fast epiphany with a slow implementation. Just thinking about re-naming myself made me happier. What kind of name would make me happiest? One that was suitable for a boy, but not silly for an adult. One that was gender neutral and would still work if I transitioned. A name that made me feel cute. Handsome. It had to fit. I had to be able to “Be” it. Jamie works. As soon as Donna started calling me Jamie (for practice) I started smiling. Being called Jamie makes me happy. Being legally Jamie makes me happy. I still have some questions about what it means for me to “Be Jamie,” but, I can finally relax a bit, accept my transgender-ness, let my butch loose, and stop trying to be someone I’m not. I was also able to identify what makes me happy. I am happy playing with Gracie. I am happy lying in bed with Donna. And vice-versa. I am happy at the ocean. I am happy reading Yotam Ottolenghi‘s “Jerusalem” and then cooking from it. I am happy shopping at the Greenmarket. I am happy reading “Swerve“.  I am happy listening to Joni Mitchell and Radio Tarifa. I don’t make enough room for what makes me happy. I clutter up my time with last Sunday’s New York Times and this week’s New Yorker. I half-listen to All Things Considered while I catch-up on some blogs in the WordPress Reader. I think I should be more cosmopolitan, I want to be more informed, but, I really need to make time for being Jamie.  Authenticity butch genderqueer Happiness Project Joni Mitchell lesbian lgbt Name change queer Radio Tarifa transgender Yotam Ottolenghi Being Jamie  Gracie loves routine. Gracie expects to walk down to 11th Street in the morning and she expects to go to the dog run before dinner. At night, she expects me to play “tricks for treats”.  She expects a rawhide swizzle stick after the last walk, and she expects to be invited up for a snuggle right before I go to sleep. If I try to skip a routine because it is late, or because I am tired, she sits and gives me a withering look. She whines. She is a willful little bitch. The last time I counted, we had over twenty daily routines. I will not list them. She keeps track. Dogs like consistency. If you asked Gracie what she wanted to do tonight, she would probably reply “The usual.” I enjoy Gracie’s routines. They are a form of intimacy. I love her enthusiasm for giving me high-fives. I like how she  pulls me to the right at the corner of Horatio and Washington because it it time to go to the dog run. Gracie and I understand each other. We know what makes each other tick. There is great comfort in being known, even if it is by a dog. I don’t have to explain myself. I don’t have to make excuses. I don’t have to pretend to be someone else. I can stick to the routine. It is a good thing that I have Gracie, because Donna chafes at routine. She claims that a routine is a good starting point. Having a routine helps to keep her organized, but she does not want to be constrained or governed by it. Donna is always thinking about how to improve the itinerary, by either deviating from it or adding to it. As soon as I adjust to a plan, she changes it. She likes spontaneity. She aspires to be a free-spirit. She always wants to hear the specials in a restaurant. I am a person who cleaves to routine. I like that the barista knows me as “grande dark roast in a personal cup” and that the waiter at the Japanese restaurant knows me as  “sushi deluxe, salad, Asahi Super Dry beer.” I like that they acknowledge my existence, even if they don’t know me by name. Still, they see me as something more than my appearance. Being butch and trans* is at odds with the heteronormative world; the familiarity of routine evens out the score. A woman in the locker room was staring at my hairy legs (and the neon-green striped boxer briefs I forgot I was wearing). I reminded myself that the trainers and staff know me, my form is good, and I know I belong there, hairy legs and all. Thursday at 5:00 P.M. is my gym time. I’m willing to share it with others. When I was in my twenties I wanted to be invisible. I preferred places that were impersonal, grab and go. I avoided situations that required asking for assistance. I did not want to deal with a bank teller, or a delicatessen counterman, or a hardware store clerk. I did not want to be on a first name basis with the cheesemonger at Murray’s. I’ve changed. I still feel a little tension going into a new place; are they going to have an attitude? I like patronizing shops and restaurants where I don’t have to worry about how I look or how I sound or what the proprietor is going to call me. It isn’t about being a big shot or jumping the queue or getting the red-carpet treatment. Being a regular takes the sting out of being gender non-conforming. I can be queer and normal at the same time. It is comforting to have someone ask “The usual?” and to be able to answer “Yes.”  Doggerel authenticity butch genderqueer lesbian lgbt queer relationships routine transgender I’ll Have the Usual  Donna and I were at a dinner party at a friend’s house. We were talking about how we see ourselves; how as we get older we “photoshop” our own image in the mirror. We all saw ourselves as younger than our chronological age. For Donna, the magic number was 37. I was embarrassed to say that mine was 12. Pre-everything. I did not add that the 12 year-old is a boy. When I am asked why I haven’t transitioned, I usually joke back that the last thing the world needs is another schlubby, short, bald, un-athletic, middle-aged, nerdy, straight, Jewish, white guy. It is a completely uncool image. It is not whom I want to be. The more accurate answer is that I can picture myself as a boy but not as a man. The truth is, I do not picture myself as an adult of either sex. When I picture myself as a child or as an adolescent, I only see myself as a boy. WIthout breasts. Sometimes I think about top surgery. Mostly I try to look at myself from the shoulders up. What happens to tomboys when they age out? When being a jock or a nerd no longer protects you? When the pressure to conform mounts? When you find yourself becoming marginalized in settings where you used to fit in? How much do you bend, how much do you give in? I came out when I was 17. In 1976, if you were a tomboy, and you were attracted to women, you pitched your tent in the butch camp. You were supposed to be a woman-identified-woman.  Even if you had short hair, and wore jeans, flannel shirts, and construction boots. The biggest put-down was to be called a male-identified lesbian. Being an out lesbian was supposed to liberate you from your internalized masculinity. You were encouraged to reject all that was male. The women espousing this line were doctrinaire. They had little empathy for incorrigible butches. I suppressed my desire to be a boy, but I still lived my life as-if. I evolved into an adult tomboy. I expected to outgrow it and become a well-adjusted butch. First I thought this would happen when I got out of school and had to be in the real world. Then, I thought maybe when I got a job and had to go to work. Then, I figured when I fell in love and got into a relationship. Then, I thought if I worked on it in therapy. The older I got the more uncomfortable I became with the contradiction between how I felt and who I said I was. I don’t know if this is how I want to live for the rest of my life. It is not easy to stay on the border of butch and trans*. I don’t see a better option, so I continue to muddle along. What will my life be like at 60? At 70? At 80? At 90? Do I want to be the world’s oldest living tomboy? Note: the picture is of Albert D. J. Cashier;  a soldier in the U.S. Civil War.  Butch Or Trans? aging authenticity butch Gender lesbian lgbt queer tomboy transgender Transition World’s Oldest Living Tomboy?  I stick out because I am butch. People notice me. They “Sir” me by accident or condescendingly “Ma’am” me. It is a binary world and I am not a person who fits comfortably on either side of the male/female divide. There are times when I am tired of being a masculine woman; when I would like to be either a cisgendered man or a cisgendered woman. To blend in and move around anonymously. To get dressed for a party without having a major dysphoria attack. There are times I would like to live in a magical world where my existence as butch or trans* does not cause a problem. For me or for anyone else. Butches (and all other gender non-conforming people) disrupt the natural flow of events. We make people uncomfortable. There are a million nuances in how men conduct themselves with women. And in how men conduct themselves with other men. The same holds true for women. Every interaction is gendered. There is no etiquette for whether a butch should be treated like a woman or a like a man.  It shouldn’t matter, everyone should be treated with consideration and respect, but it doesn’t work that way. Being butch upsets the status quo. It makes life complicated in elevators and bars. Am I expected to exit with the women (before the men) or am I expected to buy a round of beers like a guy? When I do what comes naturally I commit gender faux pas. I err on the masculine side. I allow myself a to be a little chivalrous with Donna. She likes it. My manners are lifted from my brother’s Boy Scout manual. When I was eight, I read it over and over, cover to cover. My manners are mis-matched with my sex. The more adult and the more formal the situation the more I experience myself as ridiculous and absurd. I feel out-of-place and inappropriate. The fancier the occasion the greater the divide between what men wear and what women wear and how each sex expresses itself. Both camps seem like grown-up drag. I don’t know where I belong.  There is no middle ground. I end up avoiding any work or social function where I can’t go casual. If I can’t go in good jeans, a nice button-down shirt, and loafers, then I am in trouble. It isn’t just about the clothing; it is about comportment. That is mis-matched too. I’ve struggled with several bosses to keep from having to dress up for work; every time I get a new one I give him the WYSIWYG talk. I overcompensate for this by being reliable and hard-working, being the most knowledgeable person in my department, and making myself indispensable to the overall operation. I am recognized as eccentric and as someone you call on as soon as there is an emergency. I’ve been advised to get a custom-made suit, to pretend that I am Ellen DeGeneres when I go shopping, and to look through men’s magazines to pick out a style that I think I could wear. But I still can’t picture myself in a fancy restaurant or the executive office. My imagination does not stretch that far. It goes as far as the dog run. Where my etiquette is perfect.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity butch Butch-Femme dysphoria Ellen DeGeneres Etiquette lesbian lgbt queer Relationship transgender Butch Etiquette  This is my post Mother’s Day post. I find myself continuing old arguments with my mother. Arguments that I can not win. I hear her yelling “What is wrong with you? Why can’t you be normal? What did I do to deserve this?” My mother and I argued from nursery school through graduate school. I couldn’t take it. I gradually reduced the number of visits  until I only saw her at funerals, weddings, and Bar/Bat MItzvahs. We could not be seated at the same table. In the end we had nothing to say to each other. We argued silently. My mother was always angry with me. She wanted a daughter. She wanted me to wear pretty dresses. She wanted me to be coy and precocious. She wanted me to prove that she was a good mother. Instead, I was an embarrassment. I was boyish, chubby, awkward, and shy. I was willfully disobedient. I threw tantrums. I was visible proof of her failure. She was an unhappy person. She was critical of everyone except for her mother and my brother. She felt slighted in every interaction with the outside world. She blamed it on me. I made her look bad. She could not accept I was at the boy’s end of the girl’s bell curve. She tried to force me towards the middle. I did not budge. She would argue “How can you go out looking like that? Who will be friends with you? Who will want to marry you? What college will accept you? Who will hire you? What is wrong with you?” I could not defend myself against her.  Answering gave her more fuel; silence allowed her to continue because she was right all along. Heinz Kohut called this narcissistic rage. It was my mother’s modus operandi. There are parents who do not silence their children or force them to hide their true selves. They love and accept their feminine sons, their masculine daughters, their transgender children. They take a lot of flak for practicing unconditional love. I follow two blogs written by the mothers of transgender children; George Jesse Love and Trans*forming Family. They give me hope. When it was clear she was dying, my mother told my brother to let me know, in case I wanted to see her. I told him to tell her that if she asked to see me I would go. She did not ask. I did not go. Donna and I went to the funeral. My mother was interred in the last crypt of her father’s family’s mausoleum. She was placed directly under her mother. She would have been upset with the rabbi (too young), with the service (too short), and with me for wearing black Levi’s (inappropriate). When I die I want my ashes to be mixed with the ashes of my dogs. I want our ashes scattered at Good Harbor Beach in Gloucester, Massachusetts. It will be my last act of willful disobedience.  Authenticity butch cremation genderqueer lesbian lgbt mothers parenting queer relationships transgender There Is No Point in Arguing with Someone Who Is Already Dead  My post “Traveling to Guatemala” was Freshly Pressed. The post was then highlighted again in a Friday Faves. This has brought me some new readers. If you are one of them, welcome. I wanted to celebrate my 15 minutes of fame, but I had trouble figuring out what would be satisfying. I could go out for a nice dinner with Donna, but I don’t want to sabotage reaching my goal at Weight Watchers. I could treat myself to a new piece of computer paraphernalia, but blogging was supposed to be an inexpensive hobby. I could buy a pair of waterproof Keen summer hikers that I’ve been eyeing, but the space under my bed is already cluttered with dusty shoes. Then I remembered these posts from Buzz Cuts and Bustiers and Butch Wonders. My Dad wore cotton poplin boxer shorts; my brother wore basic Fruit of the Loom briefs. The kind with the Y-pocket and the striped band. I coveted the briefs. I had a habit of stealing a pair, wearing them, and then putting them in the laundry basket. I was caught wearing them in 11th grade math class. I told the girl that I had run out of clean ones and that it was better to borrow his than to recycle a dirty pair. I had not worn men’s underwear since. Based on this post from Autostraddle, I decided to try American Eagle boxer briefs. I’ve shopped there before and found them queer friendly. I prefer to shop in stores that cater to all genders; it is less intimidating than walking into a store that only sells men’s. I could have shopped online, but I didn’t know exactly what I wanted. I have a drawer full of plain white, plain gray, and plain black 100% cotton Jockey hipsters. I order them online by the dozen, sparing myself the dysphoria from shopping in Macy’s Intimates department. I figured to buy one pair of American Eagle low-rise boxer trunks in white and one pair in gray and give them a try (wear, launder, and decide what to do next). I stood in front of the wall of boxers. I was smitten. They were beautiful. There was a pair with blue and orange stripes (Let’s Go Mets), and a pair in red with turquoise blue Hawaiian flowers. The low rise trunks came in bright blue and hot pink and neon green. All with that nice wide waistband to play peek-a-boo with, and a little pouch without the extra layers of fabric (no-Y). I wanted all of them. I bought the stripes and the flowers. Because they were for men I did not hesitate to buy them. I could pretend to be a dandy. I could pretend to be a surfer boy. In a million years I would never buy a pair of flowered women’s panties. But Hawaiian trunks, no problem. If the exact same shorts had been in the women’s department, I wouldn’t have considered them. I wouldn’t be caught dead in them. Change the context and they are fabulous. I’ve only worn them once, but I feel at home in the trunks.  They give me a little “I know you know” feeling when I wear them. I do not feel at home in my Jockey for Hers; I tolerate them. It isn’t about projecting a gender expression. The trunks are my little secret. It is about feeling grounded and not having anything trigger my dysphoria. The trunks do not disrupt my internal sense of being who I am, butch and transgender. When I can, I buy men’s clothing. Nature and beer have made me a chubby petite. I have trouble buying clothes that fit me the way I want them to. The women’s clothing I buy must be so man-tailored that you can’t tell that they are women’s. If they made men’s brassieres I would buy them (I know they make binders and compression undershirts but I have another thing about being comfortable). I think of my bras as “gym equipment”. I know this is absurd. Clothing, including underwear, must have no trace of femininity. All items go through a metamorphosis in my brain to become suitable attire. I learned as a child to re-imagine offensive clothing to make it wearable. Three quarter length sleeves became football jerseys. Pointed sneakers became cleats. Girls panties became boys briefs. This time no brain contortions are required. My trunks are real.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity boxer briefs butch dysphoria genderqueer lesbian queer transgender underwear Weight Watchers The Boxer Rebellion  I like the idea of being able to visibly demonstrate my love for Donna (and for Gracie). Donna and I have not gotten married (it is legal in New York State, but not recognized by the federal government). We don’t wear wedding rings. We have wills, we have medical and legal powers of attorney, and we have made each other beneficiaries on all our accounts. It is a lot of paper (reminder to contact lawyer to update my name on my will). We’ve made our commitments to each other. My ideal wedding would be to call a couple of friends, go down to City Hall (the Municipal Building), get married by the City Clerk, and be done in time to have Dim Sum for lunch in Chinatown. It is not going to happen. I would get married but Donna does not believe in marriage. She does not want or need the government to sanction our relationship. She is entitled to her opinion. My reason for getting married is to have Donna legally recognized as my next of kin. This was more important to me when my Mom was alive. I did not want her, or anyone else, to be able to contest my will. The only part of marriage I have trouble with is thinking of myself as Donna’s “wife”. In Kindergarten I would not play house unless I could play the Daddy. This got me into trouble; I switched to playing with blocks. I can’t picture being referred to as Donna’s “husband” either. Donna refers to me as her partner, Jamie. No implied gender. I’d like to keep it that way. I am a plain Jamie.  I am barely pierced (just one stud in each ear) and I never got a tattoo. I wear a Swiss Army watch. No necklaces, rings, or bracelets. A wedding band is not important to me. I work with guys who have tattoos of their wife’s name and their kids’ names and birth dates. The tattoos are adorned with hearts and flowers. It is very sweet. It is not for me. I do not like pain. I do not like needles. I faint when I have to give blood or get a flu shot. It is one of many reasons why taking testosterone is unappealing to me. I also can not get used to the idea of tattoos as decorative. I can not separate tattoos from the Holocaust. I grew up around men and women who had tattoos from the concentration camps visible on their forearms. I knew what it meant. I didn’t know any Jews who voluntarily got a tattoo. Then all of a sudden everyone I knew was getting tattooed and pierced. All over. This is the closest that I’ve come to getting a tattoo. I ordered a pair of custom-made New Balance 574 sneakers (look under “Custom USA574”). They are orange. The left one is embroidered with “Donna” and the right one is embroidered with “Gracie”. The sneakers weren’t cheap. They won’t last forever. I feel good when I wear them, heart and sole.  Authenticity butch lesbian marriage equality queer Tattoo transgender Wedding ring Wear Your Heart on Your Sleeve   When I’m in a gym frame of mind, I pencil in my workout time and I don’t let anything else get in my way. I pre-pack my gym bag with shorts, socks, a T-shirt, sneakers, and a charged iPod. When I’m in a gym frame of mind I feel strong and solid. I don’t hesitate or find excuses to avoid going. I didn’t go back to the gym after I came back from New Mexico. It took me six weeks to get around to it, and when I went back, it didn’t feel right. Not the first time, not the second time. The third time I realized that I didn’t want to go into the locker room to change or shower. I forced myself to do it. I wasn’t avoiding working out, I was avoiding changing in public. I was avoiding being naked in a women’s space. For 15 years I have steeled myself to walk in and out of the women’s locker room. I tried to convince myself that not only do I have a right to be there, but that I should keep going until it stops bothering me. That I should exercise my right to use it. I am more aware of being transmasculine in female gendered spaces since I had top surgery. I want the gym to be a place where I don’t think about my gender. While I am comfortable on the gym floor lifting weights, I don’t want to keep pretending that I am comfortable entering that locker room. I’d rather change and shower at home, even though it is less convenient. The first open dressing room I encountered was at Loehmann’s in Riverdale (The Bronx). My grandmother and mother shopped there for deeply discounted designer dresses, and brought me along. There were racks and racks of dresses. Loehmann’s had a large communal dressing room with no partitions and no privacy. The walls were lined with mirrors and a few pegs to hang up clothes. I’d seen my mother and grandmother struggle to get into girdles, and wrangle the hooks on their bra’s, but I’d never seen a room full of women in foundation garments wriggling in and out of cocktail dresses. I was mortified. Embarrassed. I wanted to go home. There was no place to look without catching a glimpse of a woman getting undressed. I received an unwanted education in the variety of bra’s, girdles, panties, and hosiery available to women of all sizes and ages. The women chattered away as they tried on dress after dress. Unsolicited opinions were offered on size, cut, color, original price, and the appropriateness of the outfit. There was a possibility of finding something fabulous, but no one wanted to make a mistake; everything at Loehmann’s was final sale. I was vaguely aware that I was supposed to enjoy this. I avoid the locker room during peak hours. The undergarments that women wear have changed, but my feelings about them haven’t. I feel odd pulling my T-shirt on after I come out of the shower. My boxer briefs are clearly not panties. Even my athletic socks look out-of-place. I don’t know where to rest my eyes. My discomfort is the same discomfort I had as a child, except that this time around I’m in charge. Last year I wrote “Topless in the Locker Room” to convince myself to tough it out. Today, I’m throwing in the towel and showering at home. Notes: This post “Even Lumberjacks Deserve Lotion: Gender in the Locker Room” is a great description of what it feels like to be gender non-conforming at the gym. The author is a member of the same gym chain that I go to (NYSC). Loehmann’s went out of business in 2014. It is memorialized in Mara Menachem’s post “Everything I Learned, I Learned in the Group Dressing Room at Loehmann’s“.    Butch Or Trans? butch Gender genderqueer gym lesbian locker room Loehmann's non-binary transgender Topless in the Locker Room – Part II  When Gracie meets up with another dog, she goes right to butt-sniffing. Serious sniffing. This forces me to make small talk with the other owner. At first, being a shy person, this seemed like a weird thing to do. Now it is natural. The standard questions are boy or girl (if it is not obvious), what is your dog’s name, and what kind of dog is that. I’ve learned to recognize a lot of unusual breeds and “designer” mixes. Some owners know what mix their mutt is because they adopted the dog as a puppy and know the dam (and sire). Some owners guess based on what the dog looks like (ears, muzzle, tail, markings). Most of us are curious. To solve the mystery, I could do a DNA test and find out Gracie’s genetic material. I’d have to swab her dog’s mouth, put the results in a plastic container, and send it to the lab. A few weeks later they would tell me how many different breeds were identified, and the percentage of each breed in the mix. When asked, I say that Gracie was supposed to be a Flat-Coated Retriever mix, but she seems more like a Border Collie mix. I haven’t done the test. What if it came back that she was a Chow/Chihuahua mix, or a Spitz/Field Spaniel mix? Would I feel differently about her if I knew her true genetic identity? What would Gracie’s results tell me? We’ve already figured out each other’s personality, routines, and obnoxious habits.  I can’t ask Gracie if she feels more like a Border Collie or more like a Flat-Coated Retriever. If she could answer, she’d probably say that she doesn’t know what a Border Collie feels like or how it is different from what a Flat-Coated Retriever feels like.  Sometimes she feels like chasing sheep (futile because we live in Manhattan) and sometimes she feels like chewing on a sawed off deer antler (possible as one is always in her toy box unless she already pulled it out). She would add that she never, ever, feels like playing fetch with a tennis ball. Then she might roll over for a belly rub, unsure of the difference between feelings and instinct. I don’t know what my DNA test would show. Scientists haven’t found the butch gene or the transgender gene. I’ve always felt hardwired to be more boy than girl. It is an intrinsic, subconscious, pull. There is a wide range of gender expression for women to choose from, but none of it feels right to me. When I look at women on the subway I can see a lot of subtle differences in how they present themselves. Sexy, demure, conservative, punk, religious, intellectual, athletic, hipster, girly, colorful, expensive, maternal, trendy. I’ve never seen a woman on the subway and thought “I’d like to look like that” or even “I’d like to wear that”. When I’ve had to wear women’s clothes I’ve felt like an impostor. I am comfortable with the jeans, t-shirt, plaid shirt, sweater, and hiking boot look. There are a lot of guys on the subway who wear a variation of that look. Some go for lumberjack, others for geeky/nerd. I go for “a boy and her dog”. It’s in my DNA. I’ve got the dog gene.   Doggerel border collie butch DNA dog lesbian queer transgender The Dog Gene  The Guatemalan equivalent of “Can I help you sir?” is either “Hola amigo!” or “Señor?” I spent three weeks in Guatemala without using a gendered bathroom except in a few restaurants where the bathrooms were in the back and I could use them relatively unnoticed. Donna used many “servicios sanitarios” in the markets but I avoided them. I didn’t want to risk being challenged, and I don’t speak enough Spanish to respond appropriately. I found it hard to balance being comfortable in my clothes and comfortable on the street. I opted for the basic butch t-shirt and jeans look. Donna wore purple and pink; loose linen tops and pants. She always looks slightly dressed up and put together. In the western highland areas of Guatemala, most of the women wear traditional Mayan clothes (skirt, blouse, sash, apron, shawl). Most of the men wear contemporary western clothing (a lot of A&F and HCO knock-offs for sale in the markets). My jeans and t-shirt blended me in with the guys. They saw me first as a gringo; then they dealt with my gender presentation. I caused a lot of confusion. We spent five days in Santiago Atitlan, a center of traditional weaving.  Women use a backstrap-loom to make the fabric for their blouses (huipils). Each town has a different background color/pattern and embroidery style. Donna wanted to photograph the women, but they did not want their pictures taken. She tried to take some on the sly, from a distance, in the market. While she took pictures, I wondered what it would be like to grow up butch and/or trans in a small town in Guatemala. How I would plot my escape. I don’t have a good answer to “DId you have fun on your vacation?” We went to think, to learn, to look, and to shop for textiles. From that perspective, it was a success.  I liked visiting the Mayan ruins and the local markets, but my favorite part of the trip was a morning we spent in Fuentes Georginas, a small hot springs complex near Zunil. There were three hot pools and a little bar/restaurant in a clearing in the forest way up in the mountains. There were a handful of tourists and several Guatemalan families taking the waters. I let myself completely relax soaking in the hottest pool. I stopped feeling like a tourist and became a lobster. Donna’s lobster. We felt the tension between indigenous Mayan, mestizo, ladino, and criollo. The tension between traditional and modern; between those who cater to tourists and those who do not. It is the traveler’s paradox. I change the place I visit just by being there. I bring an i-phone, a camera, an e-reader, and credit cards. I expect to travel on paved roads and stay in lodgings that have electricity, hot water, and cold beer. I try not to behave like a visitor at the zoo, but the similarities disturb me. I was recently on the receiving end of this. A friend from out-of-town was visiting and I told her about my name change and identification as trans and butch. She looked at me as if I was a two-headed-dog and started aggressively questioning my queer-ness and my trans-ness. I do not know if she got past it to see me as a whole person again. Towards the end of the trip, in the large open-air market in Totonicapan, I saw my Guatemalan counterpart. Short hair slicked back, HCO t-shirt, camouflage cargo pants, Adidas. We made eye contact. We checked each other out up-and-down. We nodded in recognition, and moved on.  Authenticity butch genderqueer Guatemala lesbian queer Santiago Atitlán transgender travel Hola Amigo! Back from Guatemala  Donna and I are about to embark on a three-week vacation to Guatemala. The vacation will be og-less. No dog, no blog. Donna will have me all to herself. You will get a three-week break in posts. Gracie will spend three weeks with our dog walker. I am hesitant to go on vacation. I like to travel. I know I am lucky. It is a luxury to have a job and vacation time and a partner who likes to travel. I have a bunch of books I’ve stockpiled to read. I’ve been reading up on Guatemalan history and Mayan culture. I am hesitant because my dysphoria increases when I am out of my comfort zone. Guatemala is out of my comfort zone. This is my first time traveling as Jamie. My new passport says Jamie, my driver’s license says Jamie, my credit cards say Jamie, my tickets say Jamie. Donna even says Jamie 95% of the time. Last year when we went to India, I went as Amy. I waited to change my name until Donna was comfortable with me taking on a new name; I did not want to jeopardize the relationship anymore than I already had by saying I was transgender. It has been a rough year. When Donna met me I was a baby butch. Now I am a middle-aged butch who also identifies as transgender. The process has been hard for her. She has had to wrap her brain around a lot of concepts she didn’t expect to be thinking about. She has had to consider whether she wants to go through this with me (whatever the “this” is). A lot of women go running in the other direction. She is standing her ground. I never traveled before I met Donna. I don’t come from a traveling family unless you consider running from a pogrom traveling. I was raised to think that travel was what ostentatious rich people did to show off their jewelry. And, since we lived in the greatest city on earth (New York), with the greatest museum in the world (The Met), there was no reason to go anywhere else. You could see all the world’s wonders for free, right here. Donna changed that. She got me going. I need to remember that I travel to get out of my rut. To shake up my queer New York centric view of the world. To think about other people’s history instead of my own. Three weeks of traveling independently is a lot of time together. A lot of time to talk about our relationship and my butch-trans*-iness. Donna has always wanted to go to Guatemala. She is interested in Mayan indigenous culture and textiles. I am interested in Mayan ruins and colonial architecture. Donna will be open and charming; she will chat up other travelers and any locals who speak English. What will I be? Donna taught me to travel light. I wish I could do it spiritually, but I will settle for the physical part. I need to winnow my stuff down so that it fits in my pack. I have sudden urges to buy new items for a trip, as if a new shirt or new sneakers will magically make everything OK, and my anxiety and dysphoria will disappear. I know the opposite is true; to reduce my dysphoria I should take old, proven, comfortable, favorites. There is a pile of clothing on my bed. I can only fit a quarter of it in the pack. A worn black T-shirt and broken-in jeans are my equivalent of a blankie. They are probably all I will wear no matter what else I bring. Lastly, there is how I will be seen on vacation, and the tension that arises in our relationship when I am with Donna and I am read as male (Donna is not amused by this at all). From her vantage point we are an obvious butch/femme couple and she wants to keep it that way. Donna will be standing her ground in Guatemala; but I feel it shifting subtly under me.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch dysphoria femme Guatemala lesbian queer relationships transgender travel Traveling to Guatemala  Note: In preparation for writing this post Gracie and I watched all 174 minutes of The Sound of Music. The last time I saw it, I was still in high school. I watched it with my girlfriend; we were stoned and spent most of our time making out. My first celebrity crush was on Julie Andrews, in the role of Maria in The Sound of Music. I was six, my family had gone to Radio City Music Hall to see the movie for a big night out. I already knew the music because we had the original cast album from the play. I was not prepared for how lovely Maria was, and how sweet she was towards the seven children in the Trapp family (Liesl, Friedrich, Louisa, Kurt, Brigitta, Marta, and Gretl). I was doomed. I wanted to be Kurt. I wanted Maria to be my governess. Kurt is on the far left wearing leather lederhosen. I particularly wanted to have lederhosen made out of curtains (Maria made Friedrich lederhosen from old curtains). When I first saw the movie, it was all about Kurt. On re-watching it, I can see that he played only a minor role in the movie (two love stories and the Anschluss are more important). I am a second generation American Jew, of Polish and German descent. Little Jewish girls are not supposed to run around in lederhosen. My family still identified German products with Nazi Germany (e.g. Volkswagen and Mercedes-Benz). In that culture wearing lederhosen would have been perceived as hardly different from wearing a swastika. No lederhosen for me; no celebration of Oktoberfest either. I am not a person who moves quickly; I do not have a crush of the week. I am loyal. I am not onto the next big thing. I focus intently (compulsively) on things and work my way through them very slowly. When I was a child I listened to The Sound of Music soundtrack over and over and always imagined myself as Kurt. For years, even after I came out, even after I identified as butch, I allowed myself to have an active fantasy life. In that fantasy life I allowed myself to be a boy. That boy was drawn from movies, from books, from television, and from music. The fantasy sustained me for a long time. Then it didn’t.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch crushes Julie Andrews lesbian queer Sound of Music trans* transgender Let’s Start at the Very Beginning  In my elementary school (P.S. 40 Manhattan) there was a clique of girls who stuck together from kindergarten through sixth grade. The two ringleaders were Wendy and Julie. They decided who could be popular, who was tolerated, and who was excluded. I was excluded, which wasn’t all bad, because I didn’t want to play with the girls. But they also decided that I had cooties. Consequently, I could not play with anyone else. I never learned how to jump rope, play jacks, hula hoop, use a pogo stick, or do those hand clapping games (Miss Mary Mack).  I wasn’t allowed to play with the boys either. I endured seven years of line-ups and recess being teased and called names.  My mother blamed me for being picked on. She told me that if I was more friendly with the girls they would play with me. That I should join in the games anyway. I should make an effort to fit in with the girls. If I didn’t learn how to make friends now then I would never have any friends at all. I knew better. I knew what was wrong. I knew not to try to explain it to anyone. I tried to keep a low profile, to stay out of their way, hoping the girls would forget that I was there. Hoping they would forget I had cooties. It is impossible to know in hindsight whether I was picked on because I was a gender non-conforming kid, or because I was shy and odd. Adults were upset because I was obstinate in my tomboy-ness, and dismissive of all things girly. Girls knew I was vulnerable and weird. Boys were off in their separate universe. The administration at P.S. 40 only cared that I tested above grade level and that there was “no trouble”. The principal told my parents that I needed to learn how to play nicely with the other girls. I was supposed to work it out with Wendy and Julie. You can imagine how that went. I was fortunate to get into a specialized academic high school; Wendy and Julie went to the local one. I saw them around the neighborhood, but they never spoke to me. I was of no use to them. When my mother died, my brother and I cleaned out her apartment. We found all of our elementary school class pictures. There I was, year after year, posing with my tormentors for the photographer. When I look at my class pictures I can remember what it felt like to have cooties. How much it stung. How angry I was. How humiliated I was. How I was going to get even. How I was going to show them. When I look at my class pictures all I see are girls and boys. I started with sixth grade, and worked my way back. I was finally able to remember which girl was Wendy and which girl was Julie. In the class picture, I am in the front row, wearing the brown plaid jumper and the tan turtleneck. Julie is sitting next to me, smack in the middle of the row (in red, white, and blue). Wendy is in the second row, the second child in on the right (wearing the green dress). It would be nice to end this post with some platitudes of how I forgave Wendy and Julie, or how I overcame adversity and was popular in high school. Bullying leaves it scars, at least it did on me. I still have an aversion to cliques, all things girly, and teasing that has a streak of meanness. I am still shy and slow to make friends. I still mistrust conventional adults because they chose not to intervene, leaving me to fend for myself. I will always associate groups of girls with cruelty.  Authenticity bullying butch childhood cliques Cooties lesbian queer trans* transgender Did You Ever Have Cooties?  I love kissy dogs. I love snuggly dogs. Dog lovers can be divided up into kissers and those who think getting licked on the face by a dog is gross. Dog lovers can be divided up into rescuers and purchasers. The rescuers also need to be rescued. I am a kissy rescuer. Just one problem. Gracie doesn’t kiss. She will air kiss, she will nuzzle me, but she will only lick me after I eat cheese. She tolerates me kissing her, but I know she doesn’t like it. I’d kiss you back if you weren’t so needy. I take Gracie to the dog run almost everyday.  I have people friends and canine friends there.  I wave and say hi to the humans, but there are a number of dogs who whine and mob me when I come in. Mickey and Lulu always demand kisses and scruffing up. Gracie is a jealous bitch. She will try to worm her way in-between me and the other pups. When it comes to dogs, I am polyamorous. I can’t get enough love. When it comes to women, I have room only for one. Lucky Donna. Licking is a submissive gesture for dogs; they learn it from their mothers. As soon as they are born, their mothers lick them to stimulate their breathing. Licking stimulates them to “do their business”. The dam will lick the puppies to clean them and to show affection. My family was not a kissy family. I learned how to kiss in 11th grade when I fell in love with Stella. She was a good kisser. Donna is a terrific kisser. I could tell on the first kiss. Gracie’s submissive gesture is to roll over and show her belly. When I come home, instead of running to the door to greet me, she stays where she is and gives me a “peel me a grape” look. When I call her, she gets up, stretches her legs, ambles over to me, and then flips over and gives me a “Jamie boy, rub my belly” look. Gracie is a femme. I am a sucker for femmes. I like being seduced. Even by my dog.  Doggerel authenticity border collie butch dogs femme lesbian queer relationships transgender Give That Dog a Kiss  I am viewing the last two years more like a clarification than a transition. I started out butch, I incorporated trans*, I am still muddling through. Either I will figure it out or I will just keep reading and thinking. What does it mean to me (this week) to say that I am trans* but I am not transitioning? I’ve been reading the classic text, Harry Benjamin‘s “The Transsexual Phenomenon”.  It is out of print (and very dated since it was written in 1966 post Jorgensen but pre Stonewall); you can download it  from tgmeds.org.uk/downs/phenomenon.pdf (I would provide the link but I got bounced out of the WordPress Reader last week for linking to something that annoyed the system and I am not taking any chances this week). The is the link to last week’s post. The simplest description of transgender is that what is “between the ears” doesn’t match what is “between the legs” – i.e. your gender doesn’t match your sex. My gloves don’t match my shoes. But it is way more complex than that. rubber duckies (Photo credit: Leonard John Matthews) Benjamin breaks “sex” down into chromosomal, genetic, anatomical, legal, gonadal, germinal, endocrine, psychological, and social sex (he explains his use of these terms in the book). In layperson’s terms your genetic make-up (XX, XY, etc.), your exterior organs, your reproductive organs and what they produce (sperm or eggs), your hormones (androgen and estrogen), your birth certificate and legal documents, whether you were raised as a girl or boy, what gender you feel you are, and how you present yourself. Most people’s ducks line up and they never give it a thought. My ducks run circles around me and are a bunch of little anarchists. For years I tried to get them in order (accept being a woman and occasionally dress like one), and then I relented and let them run amok (accept that I have always thought I was a boy and dress like one). I live with the chaos better than I lived with the repression. The dilemma is, if you accept that you are trans*, you can never get everything from genetic sex to social sex to line up. Each person has to decide, how much F and how much M. Where to start and where to stop. What feels authentic and what feels false. So far, my compromise has been to accept that I am trans*, change my name, ditch my honorifics, wear masculine clothes (nothing new here), and reduce my dysphoria by avoiding situations that make it flare up. I don’t know how I will change in the future. I don’t see myself following the contemporary transman narrative (name change, pronouns, testosterone, top-surgery, gender marker), but I’ve already done the first thing on the list, and boy does it feel good. Where are your ducks?  Butch Or Trans? authenticity butch genderqueer Harry Benjamin lesbian queer Stonewall trans* transgender Why A Duck?  There was a lot of stuff I wanted when I was a kid that I couldn’t have because it was gender inappropriate. Getting the girl’s version was almost as bad as not getting anything at all. A new pair of white figure skates meant it would be at least two years before I could hope for a pair of boy’s black hockey skates. Even though my parents were frugal, they drew the line at cross-gender hand-me-downs. I would have been OK with getting my brother’s old black figure skates, but my parents grudgingly bought me new white ones. There was palpable anxiety on their part about the “phase” that I was going through, and my mother wanted me to look like a girl. I now own a pair of hockey skates. I don’t skate often, but when I do, wearing them makes me happy. I can’t buy everything I wanted as a child. The black cowboy outfit will not have the same effect now as it would have had when I was six. I will not enjoy reading the complete Hardy Boys. I have no use for a baseball glove and I throw like a girl. But I still yearn for all the boy stuff I coveted and was not allowed to have. It is the yearning, not the actual stuff, that I need to figure out how to handle. I censor what I want because I think I shouldn’t want it. I don’t feel entitled to it. I should grow up already.  My 2012 resolution was to see if I felt better if I let myself have more guy stuff. I gave myself permission to buy almost anything (except a vehicle) that I wanted. I decided to stop denying, depriving, and withholding. The criteria were: it had to fit, it had to ring my guy chimes, and it had to look good on me. Seven pairs of Timberlands, two Keens, and one pair of Clarks later… I tried on a lot of men’s jeans to find a style that fit. I traded up my Levi’s for Lucky Brand and I got them shortened so the bottoms wouldn’t bunch up around my shoes. I bought Timberlands for all occasions. I ordered a couple of new belts to go with the new boots. I saw a good-looking guy on the subway shouldering a nice daypack and I asked him where he got it and then got the same one. I had some shirts custom-made. I let myself buy books instead of taking them out of the library; now I have a special shelf for Gender Studies. Someday I will finish reading Gender Trouble. I think I am done shopping. I like having better looking clothes and shoes. Sometimes I manage to feel handsome. The yearning is still there. I can’t buy back a lost boyhood. I can try to let myself feel the loss. I can let myself feel like a boy again. I can take my foot off my neck and let myself breathe. One of my resolutions for 2013 is to allow myself to keep thinking about being Butch and being Trans*, which is why I started this blog. I know it is the truth when I say to myself “I don’t feel like a woman.” I know it is the truth when I say “I feel like a boy, but I don’t think I feel like a man.” I’d like to be able to live with the contradictions. I’d like to let myself be as authentic as I want to be.  Authenticity butch lesbian queer trans* transgender If the Shoe Fits (7M)  Last year I legally changed my name from Amy Caren to Jamie Ray. If you have changed your name you know it is a complicated thing to do, socially and legally. Once you get the court order, you have to change all of your paperwork.  All of it. And I didn’t want to keep seeing mail with my old name on it. When I changed my name I kept my sex marker at F. This irks me, because if I could, I would set it to N/A, or N/F, or ∏, or Q.  Something more descriptive than F. I could handle two markers, one for sex (Female) and one for gender (Butch, Queer, or Trans*). It would be more honest.  I applied for a new Social Security Card, a new Drivers License, a new Passport, new credit cards, and a new work ID. I changed my checking account, savings account, 401K, health insurance, house insurance, and car insurance. I didn’t change my pronouns. Then I got a piece of mail from Vanguard addressed to Ms. Jamie Ray. I became apoplectic. What was that Ms. doing there in front of my name? When I chose Jamie (or when Jamie chose me) I liked it because I could think of it as a boy’s name, but it worked both ways. I didn’t realize how much I had internalized the gender of Jamie until I got that letter. Then I started looking at my mail very carefully. Most of it comes addressed to Jamie Ray. No honorific. Perfect, that’s me. It took a while, but when I calmed down, I got on the computer, opened up my Vanguard account, went into my account details, and found out I could not change my honorific. I called Vanguard and spoke with a slightly miffed customer service agent. He was eventually able to pass me along to someone with administrative privileges who could remove the errant Ms. without replacing it with anything else. It was a small victory. I went back to the computer and logged into every account I have and tried to get rid of the extant honorific. I had not realized that most of those forms let you insert a blank or leave the field empty. A few hours later, I had changed what I could and had a list of the ones I couldn’t edit remotely. I got back on the phone. I spoke to people around the U.S. and in India; eventually they understood what I wanted and complied with my request. To them it may have seemed trivial or it may have seemed pathological. I don’t care. I don’t require formalities. I just want to be Jamie Ray.  Authenticity butch genderqueer Honorific lesbian mx Name change pronouns queer trans* transgender My Mail Identity: Ms, Mr, Mx, or ” “   Gracie asks for what she wants. When she wants to come up on the bed or couch, she grunts a little low “urg” to get my attention, and waits for an invitation. When she wants her belly rubbed, she rolls over and taps her tail. When I have ignored chow time she lies down in my sight line and stares at me. When she is ready to go out she goes to the door. When she is bored she goes to her toy box and throws everything that is in it onto the floor. When there is an “urgency” she noses me and dances around. There is no confusing or mistaking any of these signals. Gracie is confident. Gracie is a good girl. I find it difficult to ask for anything. I learned to suppress my desires. I learned to stop saying what I wanted because I wanted to be a boy. What game do you want to play? What do you want to dress up as for Halloween? What do you want to do when you grow up? Do you want to play house? What do you want for your birthday? The message was clear. If I told the truth, I got in trouble. If I lied, I betrayed myself and ended up with a Barbie Dreamhouse. Either way, I was not getting the hockey skates.  The safest thing was to say nothing, but you can’t stay silent forever. I know, I tried, it doesn’t work. Donna wonders why, after all of our time together, am I still so secretive? Why can’t I just tell her what I am thinking? Why is it so difficult for me to talk about my feelings? Why can’t I tell her what I want? Why do I hesitate? Why don’t I trust her? I still feel like the eight year old who yearns for hockey skates but is afraid to ask for them. I hope that refusing to suppress my trans*-ness, my boy-ness, and my more than vanilla butch-ness, will eventually let me loosen my tongue. I would like to answer Donna’s questions honestly, without fear, and without squirming in my seat. I would like to be as confident as Gracie. I would like to be a good boy.  Doggerel butch childhood dog feelings genderqueer lesbian relationships trans* transgender The Right to Remain Silent  For most of my life I paid as little attention as possible to everything between my neck and my knees. I was shocked each time I got my period. I didn’t track it and I didn’t prepare for it. It arrived, I dealt with it, and then it was over. I was in so much denial that I left no room for dysphoria. Between the ages of 21 and 42 I never went to a doctor for a check-up. Or to a gynecologist. I had a superficial physical each time I was promoted at work. Other than that I only went to the dentist and the ophthalmologist. I didn’t want a doctor to tell me to lose weight. I didn’t want to spread my legs for a gynecologist. I scheduled a routine physical (in 2000) only when I realized that I was the same age that my Dad was when he dropped dead from an aneurysm. The week before my doctor’s appointment I bought a new cotton futon for my bed. The old one was 12 years old and lumpy. I sleep on my stomach, but I was having trouble sleeping through the night. The nurse practitioner examined me, and told me I needed to lose 40 pounds. She asked me how long it had been since I saw a gynecologist. I told her the truth. She insisted on doing a pap smear and a pelvic exam. After the exam she asked me if I’d noticed a lump in my abdomen. She guided my hand over my belly from the left side to the right side. I felt it. She said it was probably a benign fibroid and that I should get a sonogram and then consult with a surgeon about getting a hysterectomy. When I went to sleep I felt the lump again. It was big. It wasn’t the mattress. The first surgeon I consulted wanted to do a complete hysterectomy (uterus, cervix, and ovaries) and put me on estrogen replacement therapy for the rest of my life. I knew that if I had the hysterectomy I would never get my period again, but I also knew that many hysterectomies were unnecessary. The women’s health movement critiqued gynecologists for urging women to get hysterectomies once they were past childbearing age, and for prescribing and promoting estrogen as the fountain of youth even though it had potentially harmful side effects. I did some research and read about myomectomies, a surgery where the fibroids are removed, but the uterus, cervix, and ovaries are left intact. Sometimes fibroids grow back, but there was a good chance that I’d make it to menopause intact and that I would be able to go through a natural menopause. I also considered a partial hysterectomy (only removing the uterus). I did not ask myself what I wanted to get out of the surgery, I only thought about the best way to remove the fibroids. I had the myomectomy. Everything was “good” for about five years. My period came and went, and I pretended that it wasn’t happening to me. Then, I started bleeding heavily and irregularly. I became anemic. I found a gynecologist who was willing to try to get me through menopause without a hysterectomy. I tried Lupron, but hated the side effects. I had a D&C to remove a hanging fibroid. Eventually we agreed on a partial hysterectomy; leave the cervix and the ovaries in, take the uterus and the fibroids out. No need for estrogen replacement therapy. No more bleeding or periods. I felt better immediately after the surgery. I felt so good, that I didn’t go back to a doctor or a gynecologist for another eight years. Not until I’d lost the 40 pounds and come out as trans. I regret not getting the partial hysterectomy the first time around. Other feminist paradigms (love your body shape just the way it is, love your breasts no matter how big/small they are, and be mistrustful of synthetic hormones) made me question getting top surgery (2014) and taking, or not taking, testosterone (still on the fence). One thing I’ve learned during my transition is to ask myself “What do I want to get out of this?” instead of “What should I do?” For top surgery, the answer was that I wanted my pre-puberty chest back and I wanted to stop binding. If I still got my period, or had a lot of estrogen in my system, I might want to take testosterone, or some other drug, to stop it. But, when I ask myself what I want to get from testosterone now, I struggle to come up with an honest or compelling answer. Notes: I generally don’t read a lot of articles on menstruation, menopause, or uteri. I still ignore my lower half. However, I do like this piece from Spacious Perspicacious “On being nonbinary and having an evil uterus“. I also like this piece “I Use Hormones For Things You Might Not Approve Of‘ by s.e. smith.  Body Image and Clothing butch Gender genderqueer hysterectomy lesbian menstruation myomectomy non-binary period surgery transgender Transition Between the Neck and the Knees  The least butch thing that I do in “real life” is to go to Weight Watchers. I’ve been going for eight months. I do it stealth. I am embarrassed to tell anyone that I joined. The weekly meetings are my nightmare of a straight suburban housewife’s Tupperware party. They even give out stickers for minor victories (Bravo!) and keychain/bracelet charms for major accomplishments. It is a relentlessly cheerful heteronormative environment. It is enough to raise the lint on the back of my flannel shirt. At least one of us feels like an elephant. I have been pudgy since I was old enough to reach the cookie jar. I ate to stuff down my feelings. I denied the correlation between the volume of food and alcohol I ingested and my size. I hid my sex behind a layer of fat. I never tried theme or fad diets. I subscribed to the feminist anti-diet approach, which works great if you don’t care how much you weigh. I attended some eating awareness groups run by the Women’s Therapy Center Institute; they helped me cut down on bingeing. I read Geneen Roth’s books on compulsive eating. I could blame my inability to make the connection between being chubby and not wanting to be a girl on the exclusion of transgender/butch/lesbian issues from the material covered, but I know I am good as avoiding what I don’t want to see. I don’t want to see a girl in the mirror. Or an elephant.  I go to Weight Watchers because I want to find out what it feels like to be “not overweight”. Is there a word for it other than normal? I want to see what my body looks like without all the baggage. I didn’t know if I would look more butch, more trans*, or more female if I lost weight. My fear was more female. After I lost 10 pounds I noticed my breasts. They had been camouflaged (from me) by belly fat. When the belly fat melted away, even though my breasts got a little smaller, they seemed more prominent. There is no way to know whether this is just my distortion or reality.  It has not affected the frequency of my being “Sir’d” in public, but it is still winter in NYC, and I dress in layers. Up until recently, my everyday bra was a Champion Sport Wirefree Bra (38C). To get my breasts back in line with where I thought they should be, I had to amp up the compression. After some trial and error I switched to Phoebe by Moving Comfort. Phoebe does the job masterfully. Phoebe allows me to look the way I want to look; leaner and more streamlined. A week after I made the switch, Donna had a meltdown. She was convinced that I had started binding, and that top surgery would be next. She doesn’t want to see anything happen to my breasts. Fortunately, Donna is resilient. She still loves me. I’ve got a way to go before I reach my Weight Watchers goal. I should get another charm and some Bravo’s on the way. I would like to be able to look in the mirror and see myself without distortion, even if I can only do it fully clothed with Phoebe’s help. I still can’t quite picture myself. Brihadeeswarar Temple For anyone interested, the picture of me being blessed by the elephant was taken in February 2012 at the Brihadeeswarar Temple in Thanjuvar, Tamil Nadu, India. I was “Sir’d” continuously on the trip despite my lame attempt to not look “too butch”. I was blessed by many elephants; they had seen it all before and blessed me without judgement.  Body Image and Clothing Brihadeeswarar Temple butch Diet elephant Hindu temple lesbian trans* transgender Weight Watchers The Elephant in the Closet  No, I’ve never been asked that question. Today I was “Sir’d” while I was waiting to buy a loaf of bread at Bien Cuit. I did not correct the counter-man, and he did not apologise. Mostly I am read as female but several times a week I am read as male. I answer to either. I realize that it would be easy to be consistently read as female. That it is completely in my control.  If it bothered me to be “Sir’d” I could be “Miss’d ” or “Ma’am’d” in an instant. It isn’t that strangers don’t pay any attention when they look at me. They don’t see obvious female clues, so they default to male. I don’t do any of the things that women are supposed to do to look like a woman. Some people get confused because they see my gender, but they don’t see my sex. Some people get angry because they think I should be easier to read. They don’t like having to think. Some people hate ambiguity. In theory, I could wear earings that dangled. Or I could wear glasses that are feminine. I could carry a purse. I could tweeze my eyebrows. I could shave my legs. I could wear make-up. I could wear a scarf like a woman wears it. I could style my hair differently. I could wear jewelry (other than studs in my ears). I could wear women’s clothing, or a woman’s winter jacket, or a woman’s hat, or women’s gloves. I could color my hair. I could show cleavage. If I did just one of those things, if I gave just one visible clue, I would automatically register as “Miss”. But I am never going to do any of those things. I am never going to make an effort to look like a girl for anyone.  I make an effort to look the way I look. I am so far down the butch bunny trail that I couldn’t even remember the word that went with eyebrows (shave? thin? thread?) and I started to write “wear a purse” because the phrase “carry a purse” is not in my vocabulary. I have to accept that it is no accident when I am “Sir’d”. I have to accept that when I look in the mirror I want to I read myself as “not a girl”. I have to accept that whichever way you read me, by sex or by gender, you are right.  Authenticity BIen Cuit butch cross dressing passing queer trans* transgender Can I Help You, Butch?  Some days my brain is  “trans*-fixed”. Imagine my surprise as I was taking a walk through Battery Park City at lunch, thinking about the blog, and out of the corner of my eye I saw this bus. I thought “no way”. But there is always a way. Hey! That’s my bus! Apologies to Paul Simon. Hey! That’s My Bus!  Butch Or Trans? Battery Park City blog bus Paul Simon queer trans* transgender Hop on the Bus, Gus  If I could be as cute as Gracie women would stop me on the street and ruffle my hair and say that I was the cutest thing ever. I never felt cute as a child. I desperately wanted to be cute. I wanted to be handsome. My fantasy was that I would be scooped up and hugged because I was too cute to walk by. I wished that women’s heads would turn because I was so handsome. I did not want to be pretty; pretty was for girls. If anyone’s head turned it was because I was one awkward chubby kid with short hair in an ugly dress. And my mother was probably speaking sharply to me. When I walk Gracie women stop me on the street and say “oooh what a cute dog!”. Gracie is a big flirt. She lays her ears back and pulls on the leash to say hi. She smiles at the woman passing by. She gets up on her hind legs and waves her front paws. She loves toddlers. She sticks her nose into strollers. She will make a bee-line for a woman on a park bench. She will sidle up to strangers and rub her head against their legs asking for a little scratch. She has admirers in the neighborhood. Tom and Bill carry special treats just in case they run into Gracie out on her last walk in the evening. She is a popular girl. I was not a popular girl (already I can hear myself muttering “I was not a girl”). I was not a popular child. I was a shy kid who wanted to be a cute boy (in my mind there was no other kind). The girls at P.S. 40 said I had cooties. I was teased and picked on.  I kept to myself. I thought it was my fault for being weird. I get to be cute by extension when I am out with Gracie. When I am walking her I feel cute too. Loose, relaxed, bouncy, free, real, approachable, friendly. Now if I could just learn how to flirt.  Doggerel bullying butch dog flirting queer trans* transgender If I Could Be as Cute as Gracie  After a brief break due to Hurricane Sandy, Thanksgiving, Donna’s birthday, Hanukkah, my birthday, Christmas, and New Years, I waddled back to the gym. This is the obligatory January gym post. The very first time I went to the gym I felt like Moby Dick. I was one big whale of a butch flailing around. Donna had basically told me to get my middle-aged gut to a gym and get in shape. She was worried about me because my Dad died young (43), and I take after my Dad (homely looking). Donna doesn’t often ask me to do things that will make me appear more butch so I didn’t want to refuse her. I hoped that going to the gym would help me close the schism between my head and my body. That working out would make my body feel less alien. That it would cast out the demon of dysphoria. My Dad didn’t play sports, didn’t use power tools, didn’t own a car. I am not a macho butch or a manly butch or even a gentleman butch. I am a nerdy Jewish boy butch. I am a pudgy wuss. I am just like my Dad. The second time I went to the gym I had an introductory free session with a personal trainer. It was painful. I was beet red after 5 minutes. I was out of breath. I was a 5-foot-4-inch 175 pound weakling. I returned hoping I could work out in peace and quiet without a trainer without making a total fool of myself. I bought some gym shorts. After a couple of months of lifting weights and using the elliptical, I started to look a little more like Charlie the Tuna. This was a big improvement. I was still ridiculous, I wasn’t svelte, but there was hope. I don’t think it has anything to do with being butch or trans*, but I am happiest in the water. I am ecstatic in the ocean. I love to swim. I’d swim in a pool for exercise, but I haven’t found a swimsuit I can tolerate wearing in public. Even the thought of wearing my black racerback Speedo makes me cringe.  Dysphoria is insidious.  It transforms pleasurable activities into a slog though miles of muddy swampland. I can handle gym shorts and a t-shirt, so long as I avoid the full length mirrors. When I work out, I look at myself from the shoulders up. I look at my form and not at my body. I tell myself that I am only competing against myself. It doesn’t matter what anyone else is lifting. Concentrate on the on the movement and the feel of my muscles contracting not on the size of the dumbbells or the number of plates on the bar. I remind myself that I feel good and I look better when I am working out regularly. I hold my breath every time I walk into the women’s locker room, hoping no one tries to stop me. My personal weight lifting goal is to feel like Flipper, the bottlenose dolphin who effortlessly jumps up in the air and then dives down into the water. Who laughs and swims and is friends with Sandy and Bud. If I worked out more, I could be as graceful as Flipper. Therein lies the problem. My roles models are fish.  Male fish (technically marine mammals). Flipper Searching for Jamie Ray    Authenticity butch dolphin gym queer Speedo trans* transgender weight The Obligatory January Gym Post  It pains me to admit that I look better in pink than in blue.  All through my childhood I refused to wear pink.  Pink was for girls.  I was not a girl.  Q.E.D.  I would wear blue, thank you.  One of the first fights that I remember over clothing was the purchase of a pair of leather Oxford shoes.  I was in nursery school.  I wanted the navy blue ones. My mother wanted me to get the red ones. I pitched a fit. If you read that first paragraph carefully, you guessed that there were many fights.  Many of them over clothing.  Many of them over shoes.  Until I was in the middle of 5th grade, girls had to wear dresses to school, even pubic schools.  There was not much of a point in fighting about that.  It was “The Law”.  I had an assortment of drab dresses that I absolutely hated.  Not because they were drab. Drab for me was always fine, at least until recently.  Navy blue comes in many shades; I own clothing in all of them.  Butches appreciate the nuances of navy blue.  “Everything goes with blue jeans” is my motto, although I wouldn’t have included pink shirts until recently.   I learned to wear pink by wearing what I thought of as “men’s pink”.  I was at work and I saw a guy wearing a pink shirt and I thought “If he can do that then I can do that”.  I went out and bought my first Brooks Brothers button down Oxford cloth shirt in pink. I have a thing about button down shirts.  I own about twenty of them.  Four of them are pink. Initially it was hard for me to accept that I looked good in pink.  I knew I looked good in maroon.  Maroon was cool.  Maroon could be a team color.  Pink was for girls, except when it was for guys and then I could wear it.   Once I could accept that I was handsome in pink, it worked. Sometimes my own logic defies logic.  Authenticity Brooks Brothers butch dresses pink queer shoes transgender Learning to Wear Pink  I got my first dog, Lena, after I moved in with my girlfriend.  Getting a dog was a condition of our moving in together.  I really wanted a dog.  I’d never had a dog, but I knew I couldn’t commit to having a dog if we were living separately.  What I didn’t know, was that when I am with a dog, I become a boy.  It works like magic.  The dysphoria disappears.  I am temporarily transformed. Lena was a great dog.   She was a shepherd mix (a hiker upstate told me that she thought Lena was a Malinois Shepherd).  Her original owner died of AIDS, and his brother had promised to find Lena a good home.  I saw a flyer about her on a table at an ACT-UP meeting.  When I brought her home, Donna said it was as if I had brought my new mistress home to live with us.  I was hooked.  I was finally a boy with a dog.  Every morning we went out and played ball.  We came home and hung out on the couch and read.  I stayed a boy and Lena grew old.  She was sixteen when I put her to sleep. I needed another dog, but Donna was not ready.  I was miserable.  I missed Lena.  I missed being a boy.  I felt disconnected from everything.  I snuck onto the Internet to look at rescue dogs.  Finally Donna said “I can’t stand it anymore, get a dog”.  She said she’d like a black dog with ears that hung down and that was smaller than Lena and had a white spot on her chest.  I wanted a dog that I could take to the dog run and was good with kids.  I wanted a rescue.  I wanted another Lena.  But instead I got Gracie. I adopted her “sight unseen” from All About Labs via Petfinders.  She was supposed to be a ten month old Flat Coat Retriever mix, but when she popped out of the rescue truck she looked like a Border Collie that fell into the inkwell.  I call her my Borderline Collie.  I call her the Black Enigma.  She loves a belly rub.  She won’t play fetch, catch, or Frisbee.  I love Gracie.  I’m her boy. The first time I brought her into my apartment she ran figure 8’s in the living room, jumping up on all the furniture.  Then she threw herself at my feet, rolled over, and wanted me to rub her belly.  She wriggled on the floor and grunted like a wild little pig.  Then she barked at me until I rubbed her belly.  You can guess who was trained first.  I should have called this blog A Dog and Her Boy.  It might be more accurate.  Doggerel butch dog dysphoria trans* transgender How I Got Gracie  I spent the last third of 2011 and all of 2012 obsessively thinking about being butch and/or transgender.  I read a bunch of books.  I thought about my childhood.  I thought about my adolescence.  I examined by behavior.  I examined my material closet and my mental closet.  I went around in circles chasing my tail.  I ended up back where I started, but not quite in the same place.  Everything looked vaguely different.  I’d like 2013 to have more clarity than the muddle of the last two years. I always thought I was a boy, even though I was told I was a girl.  This got paraphrased in my brain as “I want to be a boy”.  This sentence repeated itself so many times in my head over the years that it became background noise and I stopped listening to it.  I am listening again.  Instead of ignoring it I am saying “Of course I always wanted to be a boy because I am a boy”.  I experience this the clearest when I am with my dog Gracie, who can not talk me out it.  She loves me just the way I am.  A boy and her dog.  Authenticity butch trans* transgender A Quick First Note  For me, that is an easier question to answer than, “Are you a woman?” or “What are you going as?” Yes. Donna and I will be going to the NYC Women’s March on January 21, a satellite of the “big one” in Washington, D.C. Right now, neither Donna nor I can handle the logistics of a 5 A.M. bus trip down to Washington, the cold, figuring out where to pee, finding a place to warm up, get something to eat, and finding someone to walk and feed Gracie while we are away. We can, however, roll out of bed and get to Dag Hammarskjold Plaza by 11AM. If it is too cold, if Donna gets too tired, if we need to find a bathroom, or if we have to drop out of the march, we will manage to find our way safely home by public transportation. In time for dinner. I looked at the web site for the Women’s March on Washington (and the satellite marches in 200 other cities) to double-check that it was clearly open to all regardless of gender and gender identity. It is, but there is no list of demands, or issues, except for a mission statement which condemns the hateful rhetoric of the election, and reminds us that “women’s rights are human rights” and that “we will not rest until women have parity and equity at all levels of leadership in society”. Nothing about the right-wing attack on reproductive rights, abortion, and health care. Nothing about voting rights, poverty, and mass incarceration. Nothing about rape culture, misogyny, homophobia, or transphobia. Nothing to scare anyone away. Nothing for anyone to disagree with. I have a complicated relationship to some traditional “women’s issues”. I never wanted to have a family (marriage or children). I was never attracted to men, or dated a man, or slept with a man, tried to get birth control, or tried to get pregnant. I was never afraid of getting pregnant or needing an abortion. While I was, and still am, afraid of getting mugged or bashed by men – I was not consciously afraid of being raped. I haven’t been groped on the subway or cat-called since I was in high school. This puts me in a very small minority; almost all of my friends actively use or used contraception, have kids, and/or had abortions (legal and illegal). I never related to mainstream images of women, and never tried to match my gender expression or presentation to society’s expectations. I never tried to please men (or women), to flirt with men, or to act subserviently. As a result, I am often mocked, ignored, excluded, talked over, dismissed (middle age and gray hair), and condescended to. On a daily basis, what irks me about being “treated like a woman” is the rudeness. The times that men interrupt me while I am in the middle of a sentence, correct me when I am already right, ostentatiously check their email while I speak, or restate what I said as if I hadn’t already said it and as if it is their original idea. The idea that I am somehow not as smart, as valuable, as original, or as thoughtful as someone who was born male. I don’t want to be reduced to the F on my birth certificate, the (ever decreasing) estrogen in my system, or my uterus (which was surgically removed). I am more than my legal gender, hormones, and body parts. This is universal. While I do not identify as female (I’ll take queer, butch, transmasculine, trans, and/or non-binary), I am often treated like one, and I like it about as much as everyone else, does. I’ll be joining them on the march, objecting to mansplaining, misogyny, Mike Pence, and Donald Trump. Notes: Rebecca Solnit is the author of “Men Explain Things To Me”, a great essay about what it is like to be a woman, a researcher, and a writer. It is the best article on mansplaining. Her original essay is reprinted here in Guernica magazine with a new introduction. Sometimes I feel like cisgender people explain things to me, and it is just as pleasant.  Authenticity butch Gender genderqueer lesbian lgbt mansplaining Misogyny non-binary queer rebecca solnit transgender women's march on washington Are You Going To The Women’s March?  I miss transistor radios. In the summer, I’d lie in bed, trying to stay awake, listening to the radio station of the New York Mets. Lindsey Nelson, Bob Murphy, and Ralph Kiner gave the play by play. They held out hope that somehow, someway, the Mets could turn it around and win the game. I held out hope that somehow, someway, I’d wake up and be a boy. Transistor radios were magical. Portable. Cheap. SImple. They had an on switch, a volume control dial, a tuning dial, and an earphone jack. I still own a variety of boy toys that play music. My iPod and iPhone are the current pocket size devices that keep me connected me to my past. For the first time in my life I am having trouble keeping up with technology. Not just computers and smart phones, but appliances that have too many bells and whistles. Unless it is made by Apple, I am no longer able to look at the box, unpack it, and go right to the quick-set-up-guide. I am doomed when the first step is to download the App and go into product settings. I’ve always been good at setting stuff up. Cribs, IKEA furniture, stereo systems, or computer networks. I’m careful, I’m logical, I’m diligent, and I read the instructions. Lately, I’m afraid of turning into the angry old man who rails at the sales clerk that digital files are the devil’s handiwork and that nothing will ever sound as sweet as an analog LP (i.e. a vinyl record album) and a vacuum tube amplifier. This summer, I installed a GE dehumidifier, a Haier 12,000 BTU portable air conditioner, an AT&T cordless telephone and answering machine, and I tweaked Donna’s PC when, according to Donna, it unilaterally decided to upgrade from Windows 7 to Windows 10. Each task required me to download a user manual or watch a video. Each one stumped me at some point during the set up. I now know way more than necessary about the appropriate default humidity setting for a damp basement (45%). I also made the mistake of suggesting to Donna that she might want to give up her ancient Polar chest-strap heart rate monitor for a new Fitbit fitness tracker with a wrist heart rate monitor. Donna, who had a heart valve replacement 18 months ago, likes to wear her heart rate monitor at the gym, and also at home if she doesn’t feel right. I foolishly told her I’d do some research, buy one for her to try at home, set it up for her, and show her how to use it. She told me to keep it simple. I returned the Fitbit because it can not permanently default to display the heart rate screen. The Garmin, after modifying the default settings in the App, will continuously display the heart rate screen, but it will only update my heart rate when it thinks I am working out or walking. When I rest, it rests, and it only updates when I double tap the display screen. I finally called the Garmin customer support line, and they verified that there is no way to get a continuous heart rate reading while resting because it would drain the battery. This is not noted on the website, in the user’s manual, or on the App. I figured it out by trial and error, and in doing so I missed the 15 day deadline to return it. I dread going to the sporting goods store to exchange the Garmin. I’m only going because there is a chance that someone who works there will be able to tell me if the Polar wrist monitor updates continuously. I don’t want to come home with another monitor that doesn’t do what I promised. The easiest thing would be to bring Donna back a “new and improved” chest-strap heart rate monitor, but I’m not yet ready to admit defeat. I still need to prove that I am Mx. Fix-It. Notes: Ikea Masculinities and Handyman Competencies takes a personal look at one man’s issues in following instructions that are intended to be gender neutral. Although it is about furniture, it is relevant to my struggle with “smart” appliances.    Authenticity appliances butch DIY genderqueer IKEA lesbian non-binary queer radio relationships technology transgender Mx. Fix-It   After two years of procrastination, I signed up for a four-week Fundamentals of Yoga class at Integral Yoga. I put it off because thin women in stretchy yoga pants intimidate me, and because I would not be caught dead in stretchy yoga pants. Yoga pants remind me of the hideous leotards and tights that my mother made me to wear to gymnastics and modern dance classes. If I develop a yoga practice, I want it to feel aligned with my gender. I’m hoping that yoga will be another transition tool. I want it to help me manage my anxiety, calm my brain, keep me in touch with my body, and improve my flexibility and balance. I’m two weeks into the course, and I’m ambivalent. I go to the gym for strength training and cardio. I don’t enjoy working out, but I like how I feel after I work out, and I like how it has changed the shape of my back and shoulders. It took me years to feel comfortable using free weights and barbells, and to stop worrying about whether anyone was watching me. After I work out I feel a little stronger and more confident. I can turn my brain off during a workout because I’m concentrating on my form, but the moment I step outside my brain starts chattering again. The internet is full of workout and gym advice for trans men. Articles tout the best exercise regimens, lifting protocols, and how to compete with FTM body builders. Guys post pictures of themselves with ripped abs, with every shoulder and arm muscle visibly defined. They are in pursuit of the perfect male body. I am in pursuit of the in good shape for someone who is middle-aged and trans body. I don’t intend to stop going to the gym, but I don’t think I can get much more out of it. A little more muscle definition is not going to make a big difference in my life. Reducing stress might. When I Googled “FTM Yoga” or “Trans Men Yoga Class” or “Non-binary Yoga” I found practically nothing (see Notes below). I was hoping to see pictures of guys in downward dog and warrior poses. And I wanted to know what they were wearing while they practiced. At the end of my search it occurred to me that yoga and selfies are philosophically contradictory, which is a plus for yoga. Lacking relevant data, the week before class started, I sat on the bench in front of the entrance to Integral Yoga, drank a cup of coffee, and scoped out who was attending Thursday night yoga class. About 80% of the students were women; they mostly wore leggings and a supportive stretchy top. They looked fit and serious. A few of the men were vaguely reminiscent of the New Age look of the 1970’s. Most, however, looked like regular guys who got lost on their way to the gym. They wore shorts or running pants and a clingy T-shirt. This was reassuring. I have an assortment of gym shorts and T-shirts that can do double duty for yoga. I don’t have to shop at Lululemon. The first two sessions were not total disasters. There are only seven students in the beginner’s class (two men, four women, and me), although I am the only one who never took yoga before. At least I was not the student who sent the foam block flying across the room, or the student who tipped over while extending their lunge in the Sun Salutation. I do have some difficulty following the sequence of poses (exacerbated by my dyslexia), and I also have limited hip flexibility when I try to sit cross-legged. Last week I dozed off during the meditation period and I mumbled my way through the chants. I’m not falling in love with yoga, but it is tolerable and it does not feel gendered. I can see that it will take many sessions before it feels natural and before I experience either physical or psychological benefits from it. Right now it feels like a cross between Simon Says and Twister, but I’m still in the game. Notes: The dog photos are from Yoga Dogs; they produce yoga dog and yoga cat calendars and have an extremely cute website. This post from Qui Dorian (in QWOC) addresses what it is like to be a black trans man and a yoga teacher. This post from Nick Krieger (A Trans Man Walks into a Yoga Class) addresses the most common fears of starting yoga.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch ftm genderqueer lesbian meditation non-binary queer transgender Transition yoga Downward Dog or Warrior Pose?  Last week my boss asked if I was willing to extend my part-time consulting contract for one more year. He very nicely told me how grateful he was that I had come back to work in the subway schedules department, and how I had provided invaluable assistance to the staff by trouble shooting their software problems  (the important, but unofficial, part of my old job). After I agreed to one more year, he told me that he was very busy and asked me to write the memorandum to request that the state Board of Ethics grant me another waiver so that I could continue working. In theory, writing the memo was no big deal. One paragraph stating why they hired me back in the first place, the second paragraph with a flowery description of what I’ve done for the department, the third paragraph outlining what they expect me to do in the next year (oversee the installation of a new proprietary software program), and the fourth paragraph closing with why it is important that the contract be extended. Standard bureaucratic drivel. When I was in charge of the department, I wrote a hundred similar memo’s to HR to hire and promote managers. The memos were slightly formal and stilted. I got hung up on the first sentence. The one that started with “The purpose of this memorandum is to request that Ms. Jamie Ray’s Contingent Temporary Employee contract be extended for an additional year.” Four paragraphs of writing about myself in the third person with Ms. and she used collectively eleven times. It was a strong and convincing memo, but it sounded off-key to me. I’m not that person any longer. I don’t think of myself as she or her or Ms. I copied the text into a new document and tried to tone down the gender references. I realized that this was not the right time to change pronouns and honorifics at work. If I am going to do it I need to do it the same way I changed my name. I need to talk to my closest co-workers and my boss, ask for their support, and then let everyone else know and hold them to it. It isn’t good form to ask my boss to sign out a memo, under his name, using Mx. and they, if I’m not already using gender neutral pronouns and honorifics in the office. I substituted they or Jamie seven times, and I left in two Ms. and two shes. One in each paragraph. It flew under his radar and he signed it out. The last time this specific problem came up was over two years ago, when I drafted the “therapist’s letter” for Dr. Weiss for my top surgery and ended up using she and her (but not Ms.). I am merely annoyed by other people referring to me as she/her, but it is torture for me to do it to myself. I’m not doing it again. I never think or talk about myself in the third person.  I don’t use or select Ms. on address forms. Thankfully, first person pronouns are not gendered, except in a very small handful of languages (including Thai and Welsh). I’m happy referring to myself with Jamie, me, I, my, and mine. Outside of trans spaces, I’m still reluctant to ask anyone to use they/them pronouns for me. I don’t have a good answer when I’m asked what my pronouns are. I’m likely to say that I prefer they/them, then hedge it by saying that most of the people in my life use she/her. I don’t feel entitled to make a fuss about it. It is as if I’ve tethered new pronouns to taking testosterone (what is the point of using they/them if I’m not on T). Increasingly, however, it feels contradictory for me to come out as trans while tolerating she/her pronouns. I don’t think I’m headed for he/him, but I don’t think I can tolerate she/her forever. Notes: While using gender neutral pronouns has been in the news a lot, I could not find anything regarding using they/them/their pronouns in business writing, e.g. resumes, CV’s, and professional bios. I did, however, find a great article by Dennis Baron called “The Words that Failed: A chronology of early nonbinary pronouns“. I last wrote about this issue in an alarmingly similar way about two years ago in a post titled “Grammar, Preferred Gender Pronouns, and I“. It also references an article by Dennis Baron.  Butch Or Trans? gender neutral honorifics gender neutral pronouns genderqueer labels lgbt non-binary pronouns queer third person singular transgender The Dissonance of Referring To Myself As Ms.  Prometheus and the Eagle When I identified as a butch lesbian I envied other butches who were more masculine appearing than I am. The butches who were taller, slimmer, squarer, and more muscular. The butches who were mistaken for teenage boys, who had no curves, and looked natural in black boots and motorcycle jackets. I knew I couldn’t pull it off, I knew that if i tried I would look like a pear-shaped dorky wanna-be. Better to look like a butch nerd. Before the transmasculine support group at The Center starts, while we are siting around in a circle, I compare myself against everyone else. I’m trying to suss out who reads as female, as transitioning, or as male. I pay attention to clothing, facial shape, voice, and beard growth. I know I am ranking all of us, with female at the bottom and male at the top, with pre-T lower than already on T. I’m hoping that I’m in the middle.   I’m envious of the trans men with square jaws and beards. I’m envious when someone I know starts testosterone and moves past me on the transition line. I’m ashamed to admit that I place a value on how masculine appearing they are. I know this is misogynist, but it happens. I feel left behind. Fortunately, once we start talking I start listening and I stop looking. I like that the group is inclusive, and that there are other members who are not following the standard transition narrative, but I am also seduced by the masculine binary (regardless of the sexual orientation). This is because I use their masculinity, and my proximity to it, to bolster my sense of my own masculinity. Once, our group leader asked us to separate into two groups: one for trans men and one for non-binary (I forget what the discussion topic was) and it pissed me off. It felt like elementary school, with the teachers separating the girls off from the boys in the playground. I wanted to go with the boys. I didn’t want to be excluded for being non-binary. I don’t understand why I need to prop up my masculinity. If I could wave a magic wand I’d probably choose to stay how I am, use gender neutral pronouns, and never be (mis)gendered as female again. Maybe I’d lower my voice, and square my chin a little. I’d live in the world as a validated non-binary person with a masculine gender expression. Rationally, I believe that trans is trans. That genderqueer, non-binary, transgender, trans man, and FTM, are different, but equally valid identities. One is not purer or better than the other. My dinosaur brain disagrees. It looks at masculinity like a standardized exam; at a minimum you need a passing grade, and the closer you are to 100%, whatever that means, the better. My dinosaur brain thinks I’m failing and that non-binary is not the real thing. Insecurity, i.e. feeling that I’m not “trans enough”, makes me want to distance myself from everything female and/or feminine. It makes me question everything I’m doing and everything I’m wearing. I need to accept that while non-binary is not the farthest point away from cisgender female on the imaginary gender spectrum, it is my point. Transmasculinity is not compulsory masculinity and it doesn’t have to mimic identifiable forms of conventional masculinity. I’m not sure what non-binary masculinity looks like, but I think it looks a little like me. Notes: So what is this masculinity that I keep writing about? Is it an inner sense of self, my gender expression, or just a set of patriarchal privileges that I want to experience? Amos Mac’s photo essay Masculinity Means sheds some light on it. Warning that the subjects are young, hip, and from New York.  Authenticity butch ftm genderqueer non-binary queer trans enough transgender Transition The Seductiveness of Masculinity  Alok Vaid-Menon of DarkMatter At each of the four NYC pride week events I went to (Trans Day of Action, The Drag March, The Dyke March, and The Big March) I saw a smattering of what, for the lack of a better term, I will call “people with beards wearing make-up and dresses.” Some were gay men, presumably cisgender. Others were either gender non-conforming, non-binary, genderqueer, or trans. I couldn’t tell by looking. Some wore garish or exaggerated costume, some were in classic drag, and some were dressed in an outfit that would not have attracted attention if it was worn by someone else. I mean someone who “was trying to look like a woman is expected to look”. This last category, of mixed gender expression, is the most visibly jarring. Picture a masculine haircut, a trim beard, a little black dress, and pumps – or what Alok is wearing, above. This is not an attempt at the air-brushed androgynous look. This openly contradicts the “rules” of passing. By showing a heavy five o’clock shadow or a beard they are not hiding or obscuring that they spent a significant part of their teen/adult life with high testosterone levels. I’m used to seeing trans women all over New York (and there were plenty of trans women at the Trans Day of Action); but outside of queer gatherings I’ve only run into a handful of people sporting beards and wearing make-up and/or dresses. Playing with gender is like playing with fire. I wonder how often they go out like that, and how they handle the harassment on the street, in the subway, or using a bathroom. How often they get burnt. I generally only get harassed using women’s bathrooms, dressing rooms, and locker rooms. Sometimes, someone on the street will say something to me, and I usually say something back as I walk away. Oddly, I feel more “seen” in those situations than when I am “Ma’am’d.” I rarely feel physically threatened. Mostly, I feel safe. I’ve often wondered who my “opposite” gender equivalent is. Someone born male, but who identified with girls as a child. Someone who always preferred girl’s or women’s clothing to boy’s or men’s clothing. Someone who carries themselves girlishly. Someone whose gender expression is predominantly female, but whose secondary sex characteristics are male. I know they are out there, but I rarely see them. No matter how many times I tell myself “You can’t tell someone’s identity simply by looking at them,” I want to do exactly that. I want the supernatural power to read people’s gender identity accurately, and to be read accurately in return. I want to see other people who identify as trans. I want them to see me. I volunteered to do peacekeeping/marshaling at the Trans Day of Action (organized by the Audre Lorde Project). I’m much more comfortable at a demonstration when I have a job to do than when I just show up. Before the march, as the crowd was assembling, I was posted at one of the entrances to park. At 3:00 PM on a sunny Friday, Washington Square Park is pretty crowded – I was supposed to direct people to the gathering site, and intervene if anyone was verbally hassled. To pass the time, I watched people enter the park and tried to figure out who was going to our event. Were the two short guys with scraggy beards trans? What about the woman with the tank top and the blond wig? It was impossible. And the only person who got hassled (by a woman tourist from the mid-West) was someone with a beard wearing a dress. Notes: Alok Vaid-Menon, who is a poet and half of the performance group DarkMatter, is one of the people I see often at political events sporting beard growth and a dress. Some of their writing is posted on their blog RETURNTHEGAYZE; I especially like “Why is Everyone So Afraid of Men in Dresses?” The picture of a relatively clean-shaven Alok, which is from this Gay Pride weekend, comes with a story, which is posted with their picture on DarkMatter’s Instagram page. Last week I said I wasn’t going to go to the main march, but I was asked to help carry this banner and I couldn’t resist:    Body Image and Clothing Audre Lorde Project butch gay pride 2016 Gender genderqueer lgbt non-binary trans day of action transgender Sporting a Beard while Wearing a Dress  Gay Pride 2015The last time I marched at Gay Pride in New York, I swore I was never going to march in the parade again. Some friends in Queer Nation drafted me to help carry a banner. We were right behind the Walmart rainbow float “Give me a W, give me an A, give me an L – what’s that spell?” Doesn’t spell Gay Pride to me. Christopher Street Liberation Day March – 1977I loved Gay Pride when it was still the Christopher Street Liberation Day March. It was my favorite day of the year. It was energizing being around so many people who were out. I could feel the solidarity, even though I knew that the leather men, the Trotskyites, and the lesbian-feminists wouldn’t talk to, or work with, each other during the rest of the year. There were no official contingents, no floats, no corporate sponsors. Just a mass of men and women and a few in-betweens chanting “What do we want? GAY RIGHTS!  When do we want it NOW!” Or “Ho Ho Homosexual, Anything else is ineffectual.” I’ll take liberation over pride any day. I remember what is was like when gay men and lesbians had no rights at all. When most people thought that it was safer to be in the closet than to be out. Our rights are fragile. What is happening in Russia and Turkey could happen here; Donald Trump doesn’t have to win the election for intolerance and intimidation to take hold. It is dangerous to get too comfortable, or complacent. To believe that Walmart and TDBank and the other corporate sponsors care about us, when they are just marketing to us. To believe that if you are mainstream enough, if you are assimilated enough, then you can make yourself safe. I don’t feel threatened by the recent murders in Orlando, San Bernadino, and Charleston. It is the routine institutional, legal, and bureaucratic violence that gets to me, and the interpersonal violence – the unintentional (but relentless) assumption of straight and cisgender identity. I recognize that I have it easy in many respects. I own my own home. I have money in the bank. I have white privilege (whether I want it or not) and a college education. I choose to look queer, to look butch, to look trans, to look like myself, because it is the way I fight the pressure to conform. That pressure kills more people in the LGBT community than guns do. I don’t have a gun and I don’t want a gun. I have friends who are responsible rifle owners. They hunt ducks and deer. I don’t want to take their guns away, but I want to make it at least as difficult to buy a hunting rifle as it is to get a driver’s license and buy a car. I want to make it illegal to own an assault rifle. I was robbed at gunpoint in NYC during the crack epidemic; gun violence doesn’t happen in a vacuum. There are other issues that need to be dealt with, including poverty and racism. There is nothing I can do to guarantee my safety, but there are things I can do to reduce my risk. Staying home and avoiding crowds is not one of them. According to the Centers for Disease Control, my top five risks are: heart disease, cancer, unintentional injury (drugs, car accidents, etc.), suicide, and liver disease. I need to eat properly, watch my weight, keep my drinking under control, exercise, drive defensively, and stay connected to my friends and my community. I’m probably not marching in the big parade on Sunday, but I am definitely going to two marches this week. On Friday, I’m going to the Trans Day of Action. On Saturday, I’m going to the Dyke March. I know it sounds like a contradiction, but I belong at both. Notes: The Centers For Disease Control produced three informative charts on causes of death by age group. The most recent statistics are from 2014. Here are the links to the “10 Leading Causes of Death by Age Group, United States – 2014”, the “10 Leading Causes of Injury Deaths by Age Group Highlighting Unintentional Injury Deaths”, and the “10 Leading Causes of Injury Deaths by Age Group Highlighting Violence Related Injury Deaths.” There is 3 minutes of footage on YouTube of the Russian LGBT activists being arrested for unfurling a rainbow banner on May Day here.      Butch Or Trans? butch Dyke March genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary Orlando Pride queer trans day of action transgender Marches, Guns, and Safety  Vigil for Orlando at Stonewall, 6/12/16. Sunday morning I woke up to the news of the massacre in Orlando. A gunman with an assault rifle in a gay dance club. Forty-nine dead. I was still on a high from my two days at the Philadelphia Trans-Health Conference (PTHC). I spent Sunday night at a vigil on Christopher St., and then went out for dinner with friends I knew from my ACT UP days. The vigil was supposed to be comforting, but it made me angry. I understand self-hate. I understand hating your parents. I understand hating your abusers. I understand hating your government. I don’t understand killing 49 strangers. I’ve spent a lot of time being angry. Angry at my mother. Angry at the government. Angry at a society that doesn’t see me or value my life. Angry at the media. Angry at the politicians who did nothing to save the lives of hundreds of thousands of people dying from AIDS. The same politicians who do nothing to stop anti-LGBT legislation or to restrict access to assault rifles. They used AIDS as a political weapon against the gay community, just as they are using the Orlando massacre as a political weapon agains Muslims and immigrants. I hold them as responsible for the 49 deaths as the man who pulled the trigger.  Once, when I was a teenager, I lost my temper and hit my mother. I was in a rage. I haven’t hit anyone since, although I’ve been provoked and had to wrestle myself down. I learned to keep away from my mother. I learned to walk away from bullies. I struggle with my anger. I try not to think about revenge, but sometimes I dream about it. I’m glad I don’t own a gun. The two sessions at PTHC that made me think about my future were Joe Ippolito and Jayden Sampson’s Baby Boomers and Gen-Xer’s: Exploring Aging Issues in Trans Male Communities and Micah’s Transition Your Way: The Gender Playbook. Last year, I went to Joe and Jayden’s presentation (and wrote about it here). It convinced me that I had to get a Primary Care Physician (I went to Callen-Lorde). I found out I had high cholesterol, and am now under the care of a cardiologist (at Columbia-Presbyterian). This year, Joe and Jayden talked a lot about the dangers of social isolation, even when you have a partner. They were talking about people like me. I need to be pro-active; not sit around waiting for everyone else to make the first, second, and third move. I can’t smolder alone. I don’t want to implode. Micah presented a “how to” for transitioning outside of the “standard” narrative; transition without a preconceived idea of where you are going or how you are going to get there. He explained the disconnect between how you feel, how you look, and how other people perceive you. That you will always be making compromises. My favorite graphic was the “gender iceberg”; a small visible trans peak sticking up above the ocean, with a huge mass of identity concealed below. It reminded me that I need a little more balance in my iceberg. Notes: The Gender Playbook workshop is fun and upbeat; if you ever get a chance to see Micah give this workshop, go. In the interim, you can watch him giving the presentation at Gender Odyssey (on YouTube). It is in three parts – my favorite is Part 2: What Is Transition? At the vigil Sunday night, my friends and I were approached by Bustle photographers asking us when was the last time we felt unsafe. Alexis, Nicholas, and I appear in the piece, which can be found here.  Butch Or Trans? anger butch genderqueer lgbt massacre non-binary Orlando Philadelphia Trans-Health Conference PTHC queer transgender Transition From Philadelphia to Orlando    Ryan Powell died last week. I know Ryan from the transmasculine support group at the LGBT Community Center. Ryan was sweet. He listened intently, and without judgement. In a group you can tell whether someone is really listening or just waiting to speak. He didn’t interrupt, he didn’t cut anyone off, he didn’t roll his eyes, or keep turning the conversation back to himself. He wasn’t trying to be cool. He said he was in recovery and struggling. He died of a heroin overdose. He was 34. I know random things about Ryan, but not his whole story. It is hard to get anyone’s whole story. He told me that he transitioned in his teens, then realized that he was not binary, and went off testosterone. I know he didn’t like having facial hair. I know he liked to play with make-up and nail polish. I know he was an artist. There is so much I don’t know about him. I talked with Ryan about my ambivalence to go on testosterone. His advice was to wait, not to force a decision, to let it come to me. I wanted him to be a part of my world. I missed my chance. Prayers at the memorial. Ryan had demons. He also had a fierce group of friends in his recovery groups who wanted to shelter and protect him. They came to his memorial service, devastated by his death. By the senselessness of it. Every queer person I know has demons. Every trans person I know has demons. Every time I lose a friend I lose a little hope of ever quieting mine. I am angry because there are not enough resources, not enough recovery programs, and not enough follow through. It is so much easier to get heroin. My demons tell me that there is something wrong with me. That I am unlovable. Grotesque. An embarrassment. My demons are the legacy of a narcissistic mother and grandmother. Of schoolyard bullying. Of being a misfit. My demons are my connection to my childhood. When I was a child I tried to be stoic, to numb it out, to withdraw, to do anything to not feel that pain. The demons know where the pain is hidden, and how to let it out. The question is always what to do with the pain. I can talk about it in therapy. I can work it out at the gym. I can go for a walk with Gracie. I can ask Donna for a hug. I try not to stuff it down with food or drink. I never learned how to sit through the pain. Sometimes I run from it. I am still trying to find ways to live with it. My demons tell me I’m preposterous. A self-parody. Artificial. Deluded. All of this is true. And false. My gender may be preposterous, and full of contradictions, but it is mine. It is no more ridiculous than anyone else’s. I have a right to live in it. There were hundreds of photographs of Ryan at the memorial. In this one, taken at the 2009 Trans Justice March, Ryan is wearing a home-made bib that said “MY GENDER IS *MINE*, NO ONE CAN TAKE IT AWAY FROM ME.” I look at those photographs and I see a Ryan who is happy, vulnerable, silly, thoughtful, and free of his demons. Note: I will be at the Philadelphia Trans Health Conference on Thursday afternoon and Friday. Look for me and say hi.  Authenticity butch demons ftm Gender genderqueer heroin non-binary queer recovery transgender For Ryan  I didn’t wear my hat while on vacation. The game plan for my vacation in New Mexico was to go gender free as much as possible; to only use women’s facilities when absolutely necessary. I did nothing to soften or tone down my gender expression. I dressed comfortably and to please myself. I tried to carry myself as if I belonged everywhere I went. No shame. No apologies. This plan worked better than any other plan I’ve followed. I found the family/accessible restrooms in the airports. I swam in the hotel pool in my trunks and rash guard. I also wore them in the two hot springs we visited. I had a serious massage at a spa where there was no mention by me, or the masseuse, of my top surgery/scars. The only place that was a problem was the changing room in the spa. We stayed at the Ojo Caliente MIneral Springs Resort & Spa. We booked a room in the 1916 “historic” hotel wing. So historic, that guests must shower in the spa locker rooms before and after “taking the waters”. There was no shower in the room, or even down the hall. It is rustic, and less expensive than the newer rooms. A little like travelling on a budget in Europe. The hot springs pools at Ojo Caliente The spa’s policy is that you can hang out all day on both the day of your arrival and the day of your departure (swim in the big pool, soak in the hot spring pools, and use the spa facilities). Two days of spa use for one night’s stay. We arrived before check-in time, and were given towels, bathrobes, and keys to our lockers. We took our swim suits and our flip-flops, and headed for the women’s changing/shower rooms. I wanted to swim and soak before my massage. I got a few double-takes going in, but it was too crowded for a man to have genuinely made a mistake by entering. No one paid any attention to my trunks and rash guard. Leaving the locker room I surprised a woman who was entering, but she double-checked the door sign, caught herself, and smiled awkwardly. Coming back in from the massage, wearing only flip-flops and a robe, I got the hard stare. I am familiar with this stare. This is the stare that says “I know that you are not really a man, but you are not really a woman either. I know that you are queer, I don’t like sharing my locker room with you, and I wish I could make you go away.” Maybe I read too much into it. When I enter a women’s restroom I feel like I am crashing someone else’s private club or sorority. I don’t understand the rituals, don’t know the secret passwords, and don’t follow the unwritten dress code. My presence interrupts conversations. I am socially excluded, but I have no place else to go. I’m so used to it that I forget how stressful it is, even when no one says anything. In hindsight, I could have splurged for a more expensive room with a shower, I could have only used the pools after check-in (or stayed two nights), and I could have avoided the locker room altogether. It didn’t bother Donna at all. She was oblivious. It doesn’t take much to make me happy. The last day of our vacation we went to Jemez Springs. We stayed in a motel with a standard bathroom across the road from the Giggling Springs Spa. The owner of the spa was friendly, the changing rooms were all-gender palapas (see photo), and the shower was outdoors. The hot spring pools were small; but set in a lovely garden. I soaked in the steamy mineral water and I relaxed. No big deal. Notes: I’ll get another chance to try this out in August when we go back to Gloucester, MA for a week at the beach. I haven’t gotten into the arguments about HB2 (North Carolina bathroom bill) and how they affect me because there are too many other good articles out there. I particularly like Katha Pollitt’s piece in The Nation on violence against women, and this piece from the Advocate on Liberty Counsel (the legal team behind the anti-trans legislation and Kim Davis).  Butch Or Trans? bathroom butch Gender genderqueer hot springs ladies room lesbian non-binary queer transgender Icy Stares and Hot Springs  Roz Chast’s take on puberty, from The New Yorker. I was ten years old, when my brother was Bar Mitzvah’d. It was a big deal. The synagogue was packed and there was a big party at a fancy restaurant afterward. I have no memories of the event at all. I don’t even remember what my mother made me wear. I do remember watching my brother prepare for the ceremony. Week after week, he struggled to read his Torah portion, in Hebrew, out loud. His voice kept cracking. He was becoming a man. I was still a girl. The next year I got my period. I didn’t want to become a woman. I didn’t want my breasts to grow. I didn’t want to wear a bra. I didn’t want to get my period or sprout pimples all over my face. I didn’t want to shave under my arms. I alternated between being angry and wanting to cry. I hated that everyone was waiting for me to “blossom”. I withdrew. I didn’t want any parties or celebrations. I think, if you asked me, at age 11, if I’d rather go through female puberty, male puberty, or no puberty at all, I would have answered no puberty at all. I mistrusted adults. I did not understand teenagers. I was scared of dating, sex, pregnancy, marriage, and parenthood. I wanted to be a boy. I wanted to keep things simple. Denial makes you wish for things that are impossible. There is no escaping puberty the first time around. Even today, with puberty blockers available for transgender children (if their parents consent), the delay is only temporary. By the time they are 15 or 16 they have to choose whether to stop taking the blockers and go through a “natural” puberty or take cross gender hormones and transition. What would it be like to go through a non-binary puberty? I am going through a non-binary menopause. I haven’t had my period in ten years (the best side effect from a partial hysterectomy for fibroids). Aside from getting night sweats, I feel better with less estrogen in my system. Calmer. The nagging question is, do I feel better enough? Every day I think about starting testosterone. One of the things that holds me back is the thought of going through a second puberty. Even if it is a puberty I technically choose to go through, or need to go through. I dread repeating the moodiness, the acne, the increased appetite, and the awkwardness of my body changing. Going through a second puberty as a transitioning adult is different from going through a first puberty as a child or a teen. It is more controlled. There is medical supervision. There is more information and community support. But I can not shake off that feeling I had as an 11 year old, wishing to avoid the effects of puberty, and hoping against all odds for a reprieve. Notes: I continue to be as suspicious of testosterone as I am of estrogen, even though there are no long-term studies that show any health risks from taking testosterone to transition. There is a lot more known about estrogen. Prior to the 2002 Women’s Health Initiative Study, gynecologists routinely prescribed HRT (estrogen) to menopausal women. Women who wanted to go through a natural menopause were often bullied and belittled by their doctors for refusing to go on HRT, and told that they were putting themselves at risk for osteoporosis. Then the WHI test results came out. It showed that the long-term health risks associated with taking estrogen (breast cancer, heart disease, and stroke) outweighed the benefits (reduced risk of osteoporosis, fewer mood swings, improved sexual response). This is the best article I found explaining treating transgender children with puberty blockers. It also provides a good overall background on the science of puberty.  Authenticity butch ftm Gender genderqueer low dose testosterone non-binary queer second puberty transgender Reconsidering Puberty  If I were the resolution making type, I’d be making a bucket list for 2017. A list of what I thought I ought to do, or worse, what other people expect me to do. If I followed that list, I’d probably end 2017 lean, deep voiced, and on testosterone. Instead, I’ll probably continue my journey looking like a well-worn Steiff Teddy Bear. What I would actually like to do in 2017 is to continue what I started to do towards the end of 2016, which is to focus on microdysphorias. Things in everyday life that cause me small amounts of pain or cognitive dissonance around gender. Some of them are microagressions, things other people do to me, e.g. when someone calls me Ma’am with attitude. Most of them, however, are caused by things I do without thinking, or because I didn’t plan ahead, or forgot to tell someone, or neglected to submit paperwork. For example, the other day I had to use a public women’s restroom in an unfamiliar place because I didn’t know a safe unisex alternative. The things that kick up the most dust are: entering women only spaces (bathrooms, dressing rooms, locker rooms), receiving mail sent to my birth name instead of my legal name, being called by my birth name (some people never got the message or “forgot” even though it has been over 4 years), being Ma’am’d or referred to as a lady, wearing men’s clothing that doesn’t fit properly, wearing a women’s shirt that buttons the wrong way and worrying that I will run into someone who will notice, and filling out forms that require me to check off female. It isn’t a long list, but at least one thing on it happens every day. Each one, taken on its own, is slightly annoying, but the sum total is an unsubtle reminder that my transition is not as thorough or as obvious as I’d like it to be. I want to reduce the frequency of events, but it won’t happen unless I make it happen. In 2016, I decided to stop using the women’s locker room at the gym and to use they/them/their pronouns in my political work. I also filled a prescription for testosterone (gel), which is sitting in my underwear drawer, available should I want it, like a toddler’s discarded soft blankie. I am content with all three decisions. I’d also like to pay more attention to the things I can do to counter the effects of microdysphoria. It is easier for me to dwell on the negatives and ignore the positives. I know I feel better when I work out at the gym, practice basic yoga, maintain my current weight (still going to Weight Watchers meetings), and wear men’s clothing that fits and looks good on me. I never thought I would feel good about my body, and I need to learn how to acknowledge it and hold onto it. 2017 for me is not about passing or being read as male. In 2017, I want to stop apologizing for not being on testosterone, and to stop apologizing for thinking about starting it. I want to stop expecting, or asking, other people to validate my transness. I want to bring my complicated butch/non-binary/trans self with me everywhere I go. Notes: New Year’s Eve resolutions are a social construct, and I don’t read most people’s lists. That said, I like Alok Vaid-Menon’s resolutions for 2017. You can follow them on Facebook if you are into that. Below is a screenshot of their New Year’s Eve post:     Authenticity butch dysphoria ftm genderqueer lesbian microaggressions non-binary resolutions testosterone transgender Transition Microdysphorias  New Mexico landscape Pico Iyer wrote “We travel, initially, to lose ourselves; and we travel, next, to find ourselves.” in two weeks Donna and I will be going on an eleven day trip to New Mexico. It is the first time we’ve traveled together in two years. First, Donna had open heart surgery. Then, after she completed cardio rehab, we planned a trip to northern Italy. The week after we paid for our airline tickets she broke her ankle. Donna is walking with a cane, but it is the cancelled trip to Italy that still hurts. New Mexico should be a painless trip. Donna won’t have to do a lot of walking. We won’t have jet lag. We will be driving though a beautiful part of the country, with many Pueblos, adobe churches, ancient cliff dwellings, and petroglyphs to visit. We were there 25 years ago, but I barely remember it, even when I look at the pictures. Jamie, 1992, New Mexico We both need to shake up our routine, and traveling is the best way for us to do it. Sometimes you can only make sense of your world by stepping out of it. After we visit Santa Fe and Taos, I have no idea where we are going, except that I’ve insisted that it include a soak in a hot springs. We are trying to not read too much into the trip, but we are both thinking that if we enjoy it then we might be able go to Italy in October. Donna doesn’t know if her current condition is as good as it is going to get, or whether her energy and walking strength will continue to improve. I don’t want New Mexico to turn into an eleven day stress test to see how much she can do before she wilts. We need to figure out what pace is comfortable, and make our peace with it. Donna is anxious about the effect of the altitude (7000 ft. above sea level). I am anxious about the attitude. The airport security, public bathrooms, making a spectacle of myself by wearing trunks and a rash guard in the hot springs, and getting a massage. I haven’t flown since I had top surgery. The last coupe of times I went though airport security were stressful. The TSA stopped me, patted me down thoroughly, questioned me, and swabbed my palms for explosives. There was also an unpleasant incident with a male security guard in the women’s restroom in the Houston Airport (this time we have a stop over in Dallas). I am bracing myself for another strange encounter. If anything, this time around I am a bit more ambiguous, and a lot less likely to apologize when something happens. When I laid out my clothes for the trip (using Rick Steves’ Packing Checklist) I realized that I will be a study in blue. Blue striped T-shirts, blue plaid button downs, a chambray workshirt, blue swim trunks, and denim jeans. A blue zip hoodie and a midnight blue Gore-Tex jacket. Everything I am packing is something that I am 100% comfortable in. It is the best travel wardrobe I’ve ever assembled and not coincidentally, the most masculine. One thing I like about travel is that I can leave my personal history at home, and be anonymous, or at least taken at face value. I experience myself differently in a new place, through my own eyes, and through other people’s eyes. Hopefully, I can take a break from my incessant questioning of where my transition is going, and just enjoy being where I am. The land of enchantment. Notes: The Pico Iyer piece “Why We Travel” can be read, in its entirety, here. The “Land of Enchantment” is the official nickname of New Mexico. Unfortunately, the official nickname of New York State is the “Empire State” which is much less enchanting.  Authenticity butch flying while transgender ftm genderqueer lesbain New Mexico non-binary queer transgender Transition The Land of Enchantment   There are three boxes of Streit’s Passover 100% Whole Wheat Matzos on my kitchen counter. I don’t eat bread during Passover. I don’t eat any chametz (wheat, barley, spelt, oats or rye) for the eight days of the holiday. I’m not particularly observant, but eating matzo and creating a queer/feminist seder help me feel connected to my heritage and to other people who are struggling to be free. The rule to “eat matzoh but nothing else made from flour” makes sense to me. My parents explained that we made matzo because we (the ancient Jews) were fleeing persecution and didn’t have the luxury of letting the bread dough rise and baking it in an oven. Once Moses set foot in the Red Sea there was no turning back. I understood it symbolically, but I wished that matzo tasted like a pancake instead of a burnt cracker. Up until this year, I also didn’t eat kitniyot during Passover. Kitniyot are a subgroup of foods that include rice, corn, beans, lentils, and peas. For 800 years, Ashkenazi Jews (from France, Germany, and Eastern Europe) were expected to follow this additional prohibition. Sephardic Jews (from the Iberian Peninsula, North Africa, and the Middle East ) never adopted the restriction on kitniyot. The ban on kitniyot never made sense to me. It meant that during Passover my mother hid the peanut butter and all the candy made with corn syrup. All because the rabbi said not to eat it. The Reform Judaism movement lifted the ban on kitniyot when it was founded (in 1810). The Israeli Conservative movement lifted the ban in 1988, and the US Conservative movement only at the end of 2015.  Lifting a ban is not the same as commanding one to eat it; it is an individual decision whether to abstain or to continue with an inscrutable tradition. The Orthodox follow the tradition. This is the first year I’ve purposefully eaten corn, rice, or beans during Passover. Still, when I was pulling together the dinner menu for our first night seder, I cooked without them. Over the weekend I had puffed rice for breakfast. It felt vaguely criminal, as if I was breaking all the rules, or cheating on an exam. The first time you break the rule is the hardest. If you are lucky, you break it enough and it starts to feel right. Then you forget there was, or is, a rule prohibiting it. On Saturday, while still slightly hung over from the four cups of wine at seder, I went shopping at Paragon Sports for a new pair of swim trunks. Last summer was the first summer I let myself wear board shorts and a rash guard to the beach. While I had some self-conscious moments, it was an amazing improvement compared to wearing a women’s racerback Speedo. I had no dysphoria. I gave away my women’s swimsuits. There is no turning back. I decided to treat myself to a splashier pair of trunks. I could have shopped online. The advantage of shopping at Paragon Sports is that they have a big selection, all of the men’s and women’s suits are displayed in the same showroom, and there is an all gender dressing room. The disadvantage is that the sales help work on commission and can be pushy. I collected five nice pairs of blue patterned trunks before a saleswoman came up to me and asked “Are these for you?” I responded that they were and that I was ready to try them on. She wanted to know what I was planning to wear them with (hoping she could sell me a two piece women’s suit to go with it). I firmly told her that I was just shopping for trunks to go with last year’s navy blue rash guard. She unlocked a dressing room for me. All of the trunks fit, although they didn’t all look good on me. The best, and least expensive, was a pair of eponymous Trunks with a hibiscus pattern. The saleswoman put her commission sticker on it and tried to sell me a tankini top to go with it. I declined and told her I didn’t need any tops. There is no turning back. Last year the beach. This year the beach, a hot springs, a lake, and a swimming pool. Notes: Even though I don’t like matzo, Streit’s is my favorite brand. Until recently it was manufactured on the Lower East Side of Manhattan in a decrepit tenement. Streit’s moved to Orangeburg, New York; about an hour north of the city. This article from the New York Times describes their decision to relocate. Donna and I went to see a documentary about Streit’s – you can watch the trailer on YouTube here.   Authenticity butch chametz genderqueer lesbian Matzo non-binary passover queer Streit's Swimsuit transgender There Is No Turning Back  When I was a child, I believed that I could become a boy by wearing boy’s clothes and acting like a boy. My first attempt to transition was when I was five. I got a short hair cut and I took a new name (I didn’t tell anyone that I changed my name, but I thought of myself as Paul). I refused to wear dresses. I waited for other changes to start happening. I waited for people to notice that I was really a boy.  It was magical thinking. I really believed that if I tried hard enough and wished for it fervently, then something would happen. Then my mother would finally allow me to wear pants to school. Then my teacher would allow me to lineup with the boys.  I refused to accept the obvious because it hurt more than insisting on the imaginary. I kept believing that it was possible, even probable, that I would wake up one day and be boy. While I waited, I lived “as if”. According to Piaget, the prime ages for magical thinking are between two and seven years old. I started on time, but I missed the cutoff by about 50 years. I am a magical thinker. My documents all have an F under sex. My gender expression and identity skew masculine. I do not identify as an F anymore (if I ever did other than as a concession to bureaucracy). Nor do I identify as an M. Radical feminists, right-wing ideologues, and religious zealots believe that I will never be a boy or a man. Once a girl, always a girl. They claim that no matter how much surgery I have, and no matter which hormones I pump through my system, I will always be a woman pretending to be a man. Even if I “pass”, which I am not trying to do, they say I will only be fooling myself. The simplistic way to differentiate between sex and gender is to say that sex is biological (visible and not so visible genitals, reproductive organs, chromosomes, and hormones) and gender is how a person expresses their sex. From that perspective, sex is universally binary, and gender varies by culture, and over time, while staying aligned with sex (according to either the laws of patriarchal oppression or the laws of nature). This view ignores the naturally occurring diversity in genitalia, reproductive organs, chromosomes, and hormones. Legal sex (as defined by a birth certificate) is binary, but real bodies are not. I’ve had top surgery and a hysterectomy, but I have not gone on testosterone. My body is neither/nor. I am somewhere in the middle. Legally, in the United States, there is no middle. In New York, where I live, it was easy for me to legally change my name to Jamie. Today, it would be just as easy for me to change the sex marker on my birth certificate and/or my driver’s license and become legally male. F to M. I am not allowed to leave it blank, or to choose a third or a twenty-sixth alternative. No N for neutral or non-binary. No B for boy or butch. No Q for queer. When does magical thinking become reality? When society catches up? Why are the bigots so intent on controlling, and commenting on, which bathroom I use? On some level, I still refuse to accept the obvious. It still comes as a shock to me that many people consider my original genitals to be more important than my gender expression or identity. I didn’t get it when I was five, I don’t get it now, and I probably never will.  Notes: I was glad to find out that CN Lester also is a magical thinker. This short piece from their blog a gentleman and a scholar  describes their plea to the universe to set things right.  Authenticity bathrooms butch Gender genderqueer lesbian magical thinking non-binary Piaget queer transgender Transition Magical Thinking  I own a sage green 2006 Subaru Outback with 84,000 miles on it. I park it on the street. In Manhattan. Last year someone keyed a big scratch in the passenger side door (maybe they didn’t like our bumper stickers?). It has a lot of parking dings. I’m good at finding parking spaces, but not so good at fitting in them. I’m also responsible for bringing the car in for routine maintenance, and keeping the insurance, registration, and inspections up to date. I don’t know much about cars. I grew up in the city and my parents never owned a car. A couple of times a year, if we were coming home late at night, my parents would splurge on a taxi. Mostly, we took the bus, or stayed in our neighborhood. I thought people who kept a car in the city were crazy. Then Donna inherited a little money from her father and used it to buy a house in the country. We got a car. I learned to drive in my thirties. Friday afternoon, I packed up enough food for a long weekend upstate and left the bags in the lobby of our apartment building. I took Gracie for a walk, and then we went to pick up the car (where I had parked it the day before after the street sweeper went by). I put Gracie in the back, slid into the driver’s seat, and put the key in the ignition. The dashboard lights and the radio came on, but the car would not start. My brother knows about as much about cars as I do. His coping mechanism is to buy a shiny new Lexus SUV every three years. I wish we had grown up around cars. I wish our Dad could have taught us how to listen to a car, how to parallel park, and how to merge into oncoming traffic safely. I wish I could have called that Dad on Friday. Instead, I called the auto repair shop I got my inspection sticker from. They said it could be the ignition switch, the starter, or the fuel pump. They told me to call AAA and get a tow. After I assured AAA that I was stuck in a safe (albeit tight) parking spot, they told me it would be about an hour. Gracie and I waited. I called Donna and told her to bring the groceries back upstairs and put them away. Exactly an hour later, a small AAA SUV arrived and a slight goateed guy in his twenties hopped out and asked me to pop open the hood of my car. I drew a blank. I couldn’t remember where the hood release lever was. I would have let Mr. AAA find it but Gracie was jumping up and down, barking, and bearing her teeth. I finally found it on the left side under the dashboard. I thought “If I was a real guy I would have handled this better.” Mr. AAA took a look, told me it was probably time for a new battery, and gave me a jump-start. I turned the key, and the engine started up. Emergency over. He told me to keep the engine running for a half hour to hold the charge. I thanked him. I called Donna, she repacked the food, and we drove off. I felt like an idiot. The truth is that if I was a guy (at least one who grew up in my family) I would have had the exact same problem. My battery didn’t fail because I was assigned female at birth. Car knowledge doesn’t automatically come with the testosterone or from being butch; it comes from experience and growing up in a car culture. I won’t forget where the hood release is or that a battery can be low enough to keep the headlights and radio on but not start the engine. In the last twelve months I’ve paid for spark plugs, new tires, a wheel alignment, new brake pads, a new gas cap, and new struts. The car is only worth between $4,000 and $5,000. A new battery won’t cost more than $150, but I’m starting to think about when it will make financial sense to buy another car. I’d like to milk a few more years out of this one. The guys at work tell me it is time to trade up. That I am better than a ten-year old Subaru. They tell me that it was a good starter car (this is actually my second Subaru), but I deserve something flashier. They suggest cars that are sporty (BMW), or luxurious (Audi), or fun (Corvette). When the time comes, I’ll probably replace it with another sturdy, sober, utilitarian, reliable Subaru. For all my identity issues, I don’t identify with my car, or maybe I do. Notes: I like this post by Jenn Coyle “You are not your car” on the dangers of being sucked into spending more on a car than you want to. To save money, I park on the street instead of in a garage (over $600/month). This means that at least two times a week I have to move my car for alternate side of street parking (street sweeping). This is a vehicular form of musical chairs, where instead of running around in a circle, you wait for the Sanitation truck to go through and then parallel park as fast as you can to claim a spot. It is a not for the faint of heart, and not something I’d want to do with a brand new car.  Authenticity butch car trouble genderqueer lesbian minimalism New York City non-binary queer Subaru Outback transgender I Am Not My Car  The correct answer to this question was a mother and a wife. The second best answer was a doctor, a lawyer, or a rocket scientist (or more realistically a nurse, a librarian, or a teacher). I knew not to answer a baseball player, a fireman, or a cowboy. I didn’t know what happened to kids like me, but I wasn’t ever going to be a wife and a mother. To be safe, I said I wanted to be a lawyer (we watched Perry Mason on TV). Then I read The Fountainhead in high school and decided to become an architect. It was all based on image, not innate skill. I didn’t question why all my role models were men. Highway engineer in Nebraska, 1960. I enrolled in an architecture program but I was no Howard Roark. I was too sloppy to pass the introductory drafting class. I transferred to civil engineering because it had a promising job board. I pictured myself on a construction site wearing Carhartt canvas pants and Red Wing boots. I aced my classes. I also came out as butch. It was the first identity that I could identify with. It seemed natural, as if it had been waiting for me all along. The term butch only came into usage in the 1940’s. Regardless of the label, the religious, legal, medical, and psychiatric authorities have pathologized, criminalized, and demonized people like me since they realized we existed. I say people like me, because even though we’ve been around forever, the words used to describe us keep evolving. The bigotry seems to stay the same.  Since biblical times, words existed for the sexual acts between people of the same-sex (e.g. sodomy, buggery, or tribadism), but until the mid 1800’s there were few words to specifically identify the kinds of people who committed these acts. The terms homosexual and heterosexual were first published in 1880 (by Károly Mária Kertbeny). Transvestite was used by Magnus Hirschfeld in 1910, and transsexual in 1949 by David Oliver Cauldwell. I’ve never identified with any of those terms. I don’t know what choices I would have made if butch didn’t exist. Would I invent it? Would I go underground and try to pass as a man? Wear women’s clothing in public, but dress as a man at home? Cohabit in a Boston Marriage? Join a religious order? Suppress everything and marry a man? Have romantic friendships? Would I be institutionalized? Would I try to kill myself? I do not judge those who came before me. Una Troubridge and Radclyffe Hall and two Dachsunds. They lived quietly and did not write books about how they lived their lives (Radclyffe Hall being one of the exceptions). What was reported in the press, after their death or discovery, was often lurid or prurient. We do not know their true gender identities and sexual identities. I don’t want to appropriate their stories or retroactively try to fit 21st century labels onto them, but I can picture myself in their boots. Slang and labels come into fashion and go out of fashion. It is difficult to write about myself without using my 2016 vocabulary. Today, I’d say I was assigned female at birth (AFAB) but identify as queer, non-binary, and transgender or as a transmasculine butch. I use labels, but I believe in the whole spectrum, not just my little part of it. I don’t let labels dictate what I can or can’t do. Labels helped me untangle the confusing mess of my gender and sexuality. Labels help us find our niche. Labels help us organize and come together to fight for our rights, to defeat the bigots, and live to tell the story. Notes: I was thinking about how fast terminology changes when I read Shawn’s post on labels last week. I started looking for timelines of what terms were used when, and instead found this interesting summary of terms in the OED (The Oxford English Dictionary) for women who have sex with women. Lastly, I was looking for some information on “Boston Marriages” and found this article in The Atlantic on 19th century friendships (But Were They Gay?).  Butch Or Trans? butch Gender genderqueer identity politics labels lesbian non-binary queer transgender What Do You Want to be When You Grow Up?  Wolfgang Krodel – Adam and Eve Everyone uses clothing to tell a story about themselves. We dress to communicate our identity, religion, gender, marital status, tribe or clan, sub-culture, profession, and/or social status. Some people dress to blend in and others dress to stand out. We expect that everyone will understand the meaning of our choices. Conversely, we expect to read others accurately. Humans first started to wear clothing 170,000 years ago (warning: tied to the evolution of body lice). They made garments to protect themselves from the cold, the sun, rain, thorns, insects, and poison plants. The first evidence of ornamental clothing or jewelry is from 75,000 years ago. As humans developed better skills at farming, tanning, weaving, sewing, and metal working, they created more durable, comfortable, and decorative clothing. Clothing laws were not far behind. The Bible has many rules about clothing. It prohibits women from wearing men’s clothing and men from wearing women’s clothing. There is a prohibition on wearing cloth woven from a mix of linen and wool. There are prohibitions on flaunting your wealth. There are modesty codes to prove piety and restrict sexuality. These rules are the Judeo-Christian origins of contemporary gender policing. The aristocracy and the clergy created sumptuary laws to visibly separate us from them. There should be no confusing who is who. The Romans had rules about who could wear purple and who could wear silk. In 16th century England, Queen Elizabeth I required the poor and working classes to dress in rough fabric, dull colors, and with little adornment. The law limited access to fabrics, furs, accessories, dyes, precious metals, and jewels (see chart at the bottom of the post). The laws required that your clothing match your station in life. New York is diverse. There are a lot of immigrants. There are a lot of religious people. There are a lot of subcultures. There are a lot of eccentrics. Different people follow different rules. I follow my own rules. One of them is that I don’t wear T-shirts with graphics or text on them. No sports teams, craft beers, or political slogans. It is a holdover from when I started binding and I didn’t want anyone staring at my chest. I was strictly into solid color T’s. After losing weight and having top surgery, I’ve starting wearing horizontal stripes again. I don’t wear baseball caps (facing forward or backward), henleys, ties, scarves, or bold prints (no Hawaiian shirts). I don’t wear women’s clothing. I speak through my clothes. My gender expression is clearly and unambiguously masculine. I want my appearance to say that I’m not a corporate tool. I’m unconventional. I’m neat, clean, and well-groomed. I pay attention to what I’m wearing. I like the outdoors even though I live in the city. I’m from the East Coast but I’m not from a wealthy family. I value comfort over fashion. I prefer classic to ostentatious. I’m financially solid. I dress to please myself. I can control what people see but I can not control how they interpret it. Fortunately, in New York, I’m not breaking any laws. Instead, I’m breaking the social contract that assumes that gender is binary, unambiguous, and not to be played with. Some people are upset by my breaking it. Some people are offended by it. Some people get tongue-tied while trying to figure it out. Some people roll with it, which gives me hope. Notes: The title for this post is a 1973 quote from Umberto Eco, as referenced by Dick Hebdige in his book Subculture: The Meaning of Style. Below is a chart of the clothing laws under Queen Elizabeth 1 in England:   Body Image and Clothing butch dress codes fashion Gender genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer sumptuary laws transgender I Speak Through My Clothes  On the part of the form that said “Reason for visit?” I wrote “discuss high cholesterol and the potential health risks of starting testosterone”. The Cardiologist listened to my heart with a stethoscope, took an EKG, looked at my blood work, asked me some questions about my exercise and diet, and asked about the circumstances of my parents’ deaths. I walked out with a prescription for low dose Atorvastatin (20mg once a week to lower my cholesterol) and a follow-up appointment in May. He also gave me the green light for going on testosterone. He said that if I thought I’d be overall happier and healthier on testosterone then I should start taking it and we’d watch and manage my cholesterol. I should be ecstatic; my cholesterol was the only medical obstacle to starting testosterone. Instead, it sent me into another confused tailspin. I talked to my Nurse Practitioner at Callen-Lorde. She offered to write me a prescription for testosterone and I told her I wanted to wait. She said to call her when I was ready. My next appointment isn’t until September. Putting off taking taking testosterone feels different than saying “I’ve decided not to go on it.” Even if the outcome is the same. When I think about never going on testosterone, I get very sad. Crying sad. Raging at the unfairness sad. It lets loose all of my childhood denial. I’m not really a girl, I can’t really be a girl, there has got to be a fix for this, I’m really a boy, and someday I’m going to turn into one. Somewhere in there I still have hope, even though nothing short of a time travel machine can turn me back into a boy. Starting testosterone won’t do it; it will make me look and sound like a man. My reasons for wanting to start are straight forward. If I don’t try it then I will never know if it is the right thing for me to do. If I don’t like it, I can stop and call it quits. I want it to lower my voice. I want it to make people stop Ma’aming me. I want it to nudge me along. My reasons for refraining are also simple. I might not like how I masculinize. Donna might not like how I masculinize. I will have a lot of explaining to do as I change, and I’m not sure what to say about it. The rest is complicated. I am afraid of too much too fast. I like my face. I don’t know how it will change. When I look at trans men’s before and after pictures, I don’t always prefer the after picture. Some guys lose their softness and their youthfulness. I’m not keen on growing a lot of body or facial hair. I don’t want to go bald. I’m already hairy, and the men in my family are hairy. Except on the top of their head. I’m afraid of gaining weight and bulking up. It took a lot of effort for me to get my weight down to where it is and I don’t want to get husky again. I’m afraid of busting out of the custom-made shirts I bought after I had top-surgery. I have not found any research on the recommended dosage for post menopausal administration of testosterone or for low dose testosterone. Callen-Lorde follows the Endocrine Society’s guidelines (start with biweekly injections of .5cc (100mg) of 200mg/ml testosterone and increase to 1.0 cc biweekly). This is also the document used by WPATH. It does not take age or estrogen levels into account. If I started, I would start somewhat lower, and probably with Androgel. I do not know how to get past the sadness and the anger. I do not know if the pain of not being a boy translates into desiring to be a man, or to be seen as a man. I’m content being seen as non-binary, but no one sees me that way. Testosterone is an effective way to change that. Testosterone will not turn me into a man anymore than estrogen made me into a woman. Meanwhile, I’m staying in the middle. Notes: This post by Dr. Cary Gabriel Costello, from his blog TransFusion, critiques biological and hormonal essentialism in the trans community. He also has a good analysis on why trans men “pass” more easily than trans women, and it doesn’t have anything to do with height or shoulder width.   Body Image and Clothing Androgel butch Callen-Lorde Gender genderqueer hormones low dose testosterone non-binary queer transgender Transition Reason for Visit?  I was visibly queer before I was conscious of being queer. Back then, I was one of those kids you could spot a mile away and say “She’s going to be a lesbian when she grows up.” Now, you’d probably say “That kid is going to transition as soon as they can.” I’ve never been able to hide it. I never tried to look “normal”. I didn’t know that I was trying to manage my dysphoria, I just knew that I wanted to look like a boy. I knew that every compromise hurt. All through elementary school I wore dresses to school because it was “the law”. I wore the least feminine dress possible, but a dress is a dress, even if it is olive drab. Putting a dress on felt like a punishment for waking up. I swore that when I grew up I wouldn’t get married, have kids, or ever wear a dress. I said I was a tomboy, and that I didn’t mind being a girl. I claimed that I wanted to wear boy’s clothing and sneakers because they were comfortable and practical. I didn’t tell anyone that I wanted to be a boy, or that I was a boy. No one wanted to hear the truth, even though it was obvious. I repeated versions of that lie right through my adolescence and into adulthood. The olive drab dress gave way to jeans and a flannel shirt. When I came out, I liked that I was visibly, recognizably, butch. What was once a problem was now a solution. I went from being an outcast to being part of a community. Then I got my first professional job and had to find something to wear to work. I never got used to wearing women’s clothes for work, no matter how man-tailored the cut. I expected to find a fashion solution I could live with, but I didn’t. There was no official dress code, but only a couple of managers wore jeans in the office. The ones who did were men. Every morning I had trouble getting myself dressed and out the door. I hated wearing office drag. I started wearing jeans to work. I could tell my boss wasn’t happy about it, but he didn’t say anything directly to me. There is no queer way to dress for success. For me, being visibly queer is different from looking androgynous. Androgynous seems smooth, slender, and glossy. Flowing, elegant, socially acceptable, and almost pretty. I can’t pull that off. Queer seems more in your face. Androgynous can get dressed up and go to the Oscars. Queers protest outside the Oscars. Queers stick together. I don’t own a pair of nice slacks. I don’t own a jacket or a suit (or a top hat). I have nothing appropriate to wear to a wedding or a funeral. I stopped going anywhere that I can’t go in jeans. I’m self-limiting. There is no eloquent way to phrase the next thought, so I will phrase it awkwardly: I don’t know why I keep my female secondary sex characteristics when I don’t want to be seen as female. Are they what queers me? Would I still be queer if I took testosterone? This is the odd and awkward place I am in. It is a queer place, a butch place, a gender non-conforming place, an eccentric place, and an idiosyncratic place. I don’t know if it is the place I want to end up at. Everything I’ve done so far in my transition has made me feel a little queerer, a little more masculine, and a lot more like myself. I don’t know if I want to shift from being visibly queer to being a visible man. Notes: One of the first books I read when I started to read transgender books was Jamison Green’s “Becoming a Visible Man“. It is also the book that convinced me that I probably didn’t want to follow the “standard” social and medical transition path. I had to keep reading to find a viable path. This five minute video, What Does It Mean To Be Queer?, came out just in time for this post. Shon doesn’t actually answer the question, but I like the other questions that Shon throws into the mix.  Butch Or Trans? body image butch Gender genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer testosterone transgender Transition Being Visibly Queer  I’ve written over 150 posts on this blog. I’ve never written about my own femininity. Femininity. It’s a word I run from even if I can’t explain what it is. I’ve spent over 50 years resisting compulsory femininity. I know that everyone, from John Wayne to Dolly Parton, is a mix of masculine and feminine. No matter what your gender identity is, there is some femininity in it. I have a hard time admitting to mine. In nice weather, Donna likes to walk with me to our local playground. She likes to point out how cute the girls are, and she wishes she could find outfits that are as bright and lively as what they are wearing. She’d gladly trade places with them. I tell her I understand how she feels, even though that isn’t what I feel. I remember what it feels like to be in a playground, at recess, wearing a dress. I’d gladly trade places with the boys. My mother and my grandmother dressed modestly and neatly; they didn’t want to draw attention to themselves. They looked in the mirror before leaving the house to make sure their hair was in place and their make up was fresh. They looked down on women who dressed provocatively or flamboyantly and on women who tried too hard to be stylish. They looked down on women who “let themselves go”. Their notion of femininity was narrow and constrained. They tried to make me fit into it. There were unfeminine arguments over “You’re not going to leave the house looking like that!” and unfeminine slaps when I argued back. Even when I put girl’s clothing back on, it didn’t have the effect that my mother and grandmother wanted it to. Femininity is not just about clothes, hair style, eye glasses, and shoes. It is also about behavior. The traits I ascribed to my mother (and her mother) were: judgmental, controlling, manipulative, spiteful, and narcissistic. I’m sure my mother had some good traits, but I didn’t see them. The traits I ascribed to the girls at my elementary school were: conforming, vain, mean, and cliquish. Nothing to aspire to. I try to be gentle, empathic, sensitive, sincere, tolerant, and a good listener. I did not learn these traits from my mother or grandmother. Even though they are traditionally thought of as feminine, I learned them from my dad. I’ll admit I get my stubbornness from my mother. I’m also independent, competitive, and disciplined. I’m not sure where that comes from. I don’t believe that masculinity and femininity are opposites. Or mutually exclusive. They overlap. There are good traits and bad traits in both camps. So why am I uncomfortable accepting my own femininity? Because I’m still arguing with my mother. Even though she is dead. I’m afraid that any sign of femininity will invalidate all of my masculinity. As if crying will magically change my blue jeans into a plaid skirt, and my mother will see me in it and feel vindicated. No matter how masculinely I dress or present myself, those “feminine” traits will still be there. My mother didn’t see them, and she didn’t appreciate them. That is her loss, and no longer my loss. Notes: This video by UppercaseCHASE1 is a charming, rambling, shaggy cat chat about why it is OK to be a trans man and feminine. I didn’t intend to link to yet another Julia Serano article, but at the point that I started to plagiarize this one, I figured it was better to edit my post and link to hers. I particularly like her point that feminine traits are human traits, and that femininity is not a performance for the benefit of men.  Body Image and Clothing butch femininity ftm Gender genderqueer lesbian masculinity non-binary transgender Running from Femininity  Last week at work, in the middle of the afternoon, I pushed my chair back from my desk, and said “It’s time for the seventh inning stretch.” What I meant was, I’m bored, and I’m going to get another cup of coffee and walk around the office. It is exactly what my dad used to say when he got up from the couch, during a commercial, for a snack. There are many facets to my gender expression. Where did they come from? How much came from my dad and my brother? How much of it did I learn by osmosis? How much by imitation? Is any of it genuinely authentic? I adored my dad and I was envious of my brother. My dad was squishy. He was masculine enough for a middle class Jewish man with a desk job in Manhattan. He was an avid Met’s fan. He watched as many baseball games as possible. When it wasn’t baseball season he talked about pitchers and catchers and spring training. He taught me how to watch the game, and, indirectly, how to talk about coaches, players, umpires, fielding strategies, rules, and stats. I still, obviously, pepper my speech with baseball idioms. My brother was a masculine enough couch potato. He watched a lot of sit-coms, drank a lot of generic cola, and listened to music while he pretended to do his homework. He was a  laid back teenager, probably because he was stoned most of the time. Once he discovered music he stopped following sports. I tried to like the music that he listened to, but I didn’t. Our tastes were different. Instead, I embraced his obsession with collecting records and high-end stereo equipment. When he started drinking beer I drank his brand (Budweiser). Unfortunately, I copied his personal style, or his lack of style. Levi’s, T-shirts, and plaid flannel shirts from Dave’s Army Navy. I went to his barber to get my hair cut. All before I came out as butch. When I left for college my wardrobe was identical to his. Navy blue. I don’t remember explicitly trying to mimic his body language and comportment, but my movements are like his movements. I resisted adults “correcting” me to take my hands out of my pockets, keep my legs together, and smile. My mother wanted to send me to etiquette lessons so that I would learn to walk and talk like a lady, but they were too expensive. She hated that I clomped around like a Clydesdale. I still don’t put much thought into how I walk. I walk briskly. I don’t know how other people see me, but they move out of my way on the sidewalk. I’ve often wished that I looked and sounded more masculine. I’ve assumed that if I took testosterone I would look and sound different, but I’d be the same person I am now. I’m not interested in turning into anyone else. Either way, I’d still want to talk about food, music, the Mets, queer stuff, and dogs. Either way, I’d still be squishy, and masculine enough. Notes: Julia Serano writes brilliantly about being an unconventional trans woman in this excerpt from Excluded, originally published in the Advocate, titled Gender Is More Than Performance.  Butch Or Trans? butch ftm Gender genderqueer lesbian mannerisms masculinity nonbinary queer trans enough transgender Masculine Enough  Women from the Greenwich Village Peace Center, 1968. Grace is in the middle. I’ve only had a few positive role models in my life. Most of my role models were negative role models. I didn’t want to be like my mother. I didn’t want to be like my grandmother. It wasn’t only a lack of positive female role models. Even though I wanted to be a boy, I didn’t want to be like my brother or my father. There were so many people I didn’t want to be like. I saw, and experienced, their character flaws. Short tempered. Manipulative. Critical. Stingy. Greedy. Arbitrary. Narcissistic. Powerless. Resentful. I swore that when I grew up I would do better. I would not repeat their mistakes. My early exposure to teachers, other kid’s parents, school psychologists, and librarians did not improve my attitude towards adults. I thought adults were boring, tedious, and rigid. They all insisted that I act like a girl. It wasn’t until I came out, and started doing political work, that I met older adults whom I could relate to. They were non-conformists. I saw their flaws, but I also saw their strengths. I might not want to be just like them, but I definitely wanted to pick and choose from some of their character traits. I admired the serious calm anger of the pacifists at demonstrations. How they would walk right up to a line of riot police and then sit down, without flinching, without showing fear. At demonstrations they took to the streets and blocked traffic as if it was the most natural thing in the world. I admired their clarity and how their actions were consistent with their beliefs. I studied the history of non-violence. I read Gandhi, Dr. King, and Barbara Demming. Some of it rubbed off on me. I feel like I’ve been angry my whole life. When I’m out protesting, I have trouble holding onto two of the basic principles of non-violence: that non-violence seeks to defeat injustice not people, and that non-violence resists violence of the spirit as well as the body. I have to keep reminding myself that there is no point in hating, having contempt for, or humiliating people I disagree with. This includes people who are pro-Trump and anti-gay/anti-trans. It does not feel good to hate. It does not move my cause forward. It does not help them see me as an individual. When Donna is at a demonstration, she often asks herself “What would Grace Paley do?” Donna was friends with Grace; they knew each other through the peace movement. I was initially intimidated by Grace because she was a famous writer, and because she looked like, and sounded like, a Jewish grandmother. She didn’t act like one. Grace spoke what was on her mind, but she did it without losing her temper. Grace talked, in a friendly manner, to everyone and anyone at a demonstration, including the police, counter-protestors, and hostile bystanders. She could turn shouting matches into conversations. If a man told Grace to “Go back to Russia!” she’d start off her reply with “My father was born in Russia, and came here for a better life…” Grace would find a way to talk to her adversary, at length. I’ve lost it at demonstrations when I was heckled by someone who disagreed with me. Each time it caught me by surprise. All it took was for them to tell me they hoped I die from AIDS, or to call me a f-ing dyke. If a man told me to “Go back to Russia!” I’d probably tell him to crawl back into his cave. Last week there were thirty of us protesting outside of Trump Tower and five pro-Trump counter-protesters approached us. They tried to provoke us by walking in front our group and blocking our signs with their signs. They were looking to start a fight. At first I resisted asking myself “What would Grace do?” I didn’t want to channel a Jewish grandmother, even if it was Grace, even if she was right. I didn’t want to do anything that might look too accommodating, but I also didn’t want our group to get into a fight with them. I introduced myself to their leader, and I politely, but firmly, asked them to move to the edge of our demonstration. I told them that we would respect their signs and message if they respected ours, and that there was enough room on the street for both groups. Part of me wanted to rip their signs out of their hands. Part of me wanted to call them Neanderthal Nazi’s. There was another part of me that wanted to see if I could get them to move by being neutral, or open. Denied an opportunity to fight, they acquiesced, and moved away, while the spirit of Grace watched over us. Notes: This is a link to a short piece that Grace wrote about demonstrating: https://books.google.com/books?id=0bcSxzkO3bMC&pg=PA30&lpg=PA30&dq=grace+paley+cop+tales&source=bl&ots=IbDTkGBYo1&sig=3bUPMz  Authenticity butch feminism Gender genderqueer Grace Paley lgbt non-binary nonviolence politics queer transgender Trump What Would Grace Paley Do?  I don’t need to be Charles Atlas… I was at the gym, doing seated overhead dumbbell presses (shoulders). I looked up at the full length mirror to check my form and I didn’t flinch. I didn’t judge. I didn’t wish I had bigger muscles or less flab. I didn’t wish I was using a heavier weight. I didn’t wish I was a boy. I straightened my left wrist and shifted my forearm to get back on course. I did a few more reps and finished the set. I wiped down the bench and racked the dumbbells. It occurred to me that I don’t hate my body. I’ve stopped running the old tapes through my head. When I first started telling my women friends that I thought I was trans, and that I didn’t know if I was going to take testosterone or get top surgery, they asked me why I couldn’t just accept my body the way it is. They’d tell me there is nothing wrong with me, that I am fine the way I am. A big strong butch. They were coming at it from a body positivity view. From a we don’t exist for the male gaze view. That you shouldn’t hate your body, you should hate the social construct of body image and beauty. I didn’t know how to answer them back. What they said was true. Like them, I was taught to scrutinize my body and to judge it against everyone else’s. To fix my imperfections. To strive towards an unattainable standard. They weren’t wrong, but they were missing the point. I used to think that I hated my body. I said I hated my body. Now I realize that hate is the wrong word. I used to hate lima beans. I still hate liver. My body caused me pain. If someone tells you that they are in pain, chances are you won’t tell them to love their pain, or to love the part of their body that is causing them pain. Chances are you will start asking them questions. Where is the pain? When did it start? How much does it hurt? You may start throwing out alternatives: herbal supplements, pharmaceutical drugs, diets, exercise, or surgery. There were years when the tape ran continuously and the only way I could stop it was to eat or go to sleep. I wish I were a boy. Eat a bagel. I wish I wasn’t fat. Eat a slice of pizza. I wish I looked like that guy. Eat a knish. I don’t want to look like this. Eat a granola bar. I wish some one would pick me up and hold me. Eat a cherry-cheese Danish. Sleep and repeat. In between, I went to work and tried to be a good partner to Donna. I was distracted and disconnected. I wish I could offer a flow chart for how I changed, but it was incremental. I tried several times to stop my chaotic/binge eating. I joined a gym. I talked my way through my childhood traumas. I accepted that wanting to be a boy meant I was trans. I told Donna everything. I read everything. I cut down on my drinking. We went to couples therapy. I went to Weight Watchers and lost weight. I changed my name. I started this blog. I bought some new clothes. I went to a trans support group. I had top surgery. And while top surgery was life-changing, I don’t think it would have had the same effect if I hadn’t done some work before it. What happens when you stop hating your body? Who am I if I don’t feel that pain? I’m still the same person but with a somewhat different shape. My head is a lot quieter. There are fewer distractions, and I know when I’m distracting myself. Sometimes I feel a loneliness, or a restlessness, that I could not tolerate or feel before. I’m not sure what it means, or how much work I have left to do to figure it out. To find a way to live in this body, in this culture, in this time and place. Notes: It turns out that February 21 to 27 is National Eating Disorders Awareness Week. This article by Gloria Lucas on eating disorders and marginalized communities (from The Body Is Not An Apology) highlights some queer and trans related resources and has lots of interesting links. I’ve linked before to Anagnori on tumblr. I like their post, The more subtle kind of gender dysphoria , which addresses coping mechanisms for dysphoria.   Body Image and Clothing body positivity butch compulsive eating ftm Gender genderqueer lesbian National Eating Disorder Awareness Week non-binary queer top surgery transgender What Happens When You Stop Hating Your Body?  Lifeguards, Australia, 1971 I love my chest, but I don’t want to be defined by it or judged for it. For years, in-between puberty and top surgery, I hated my breasts (and my hips).  I didn’t know the word for dysphoria but I experienced it. I had a lot of body shame. Now, when I take my morning shower and get dressed, I give thanks for my top surgery. But my chest is not what defines me as trans. I am tired of seeing articles (popping up in my Facebook feed) that feature some variation of hot young trans guys without their shirts on. I’m put off by the media obsession with trans men who have chests as sexy as sexy cisgender men’s chests. I’m put off by the search for the perfect trans chest. For trans torsos with a narrow V shape. For trans chests with no visible surgical scars or dog ears. For trans models with small nipples and chiseled abs. For guys who are young, ripped, and (usually) white. Articles about trans men that show them going shirtless (or in boxer shorts injecting testosterone) are as obnoxious as articles about trans women that show them putting on their make-up. We are more than our surgeries. We are more than our make up. We need to see the widest range of trans possibilities, not just the ones that reinforce the stereotypes. I’m not going to exchange my dysphoria for the muscled hypermasculinity that dominates the media (or the svelte androgyny that is used to represent genderqueer). I want to look like myself, but comfortable, and with a nice, flat, masculinized chest. I haven’t posted pictures of my chest on my blog. I don’t want them up there for everyone to see. My chest is fine, but not fabulous. My revision scars are still healing and my pecs aren’t exactly even (they are even enough). I have emailed pictures of my chest, and taken my shirt off, to show my results to a couple of people who were thinking about going to Dr. Weiss. I saw a lot of trans chests at the “show and tell” workshops at the Philadelphia Trans Health Conference. Many of them are a little funky looking. There are a wide range of idiosyncratic trans chests (and cis chests) out there, including mine. I have no shame about my chest (particularly after getting my nipples reduced/resized) but I still compare it to other people’s chests. I caught myself judging an actor’s chest at the movies this weekend (Elmer Bäck in Eisenstein in Guanajuato), and asking myself if I’d be content if I had his nipples (I like mine better). In real life, the only time my shirt comes off in public is when I’m changing in the locker room at the gym. In another life, my shirt would also come off at the beach or by a pool. I can’t think of any other situations when I’d want to go shirtless. I understand why some trans guys post shirtless selfies, but no matter how cool my chest looks, I spend almost all my waking time wearing a shirt. So does everyone else I know. I’d rather look at guys with their clothes on. And the truth is, I haven’t met anyone whose top surgery doesn’t look great when they are wearing a nice shirt. Notes: This article “16 Trans Men Who Don’t Own A Shirt”,  kept showing up in my Facebook feed last week, as did this article “Meet the First Trans Man on the Cover of Men’s Health in Europe“. Both offer a hypermasculine approach to chests. A more realistic peek at what three different trans chests look like is in Davey Wavey’s video “Transgender Men Get Shirtless” which also has a link to this video on nipples by Ryan Cassata with Davey Wavey.  Body Image and Clothing butch chest reconstruction revision Eisenstein In Guanajuato ftm genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer Shirtless Trans Men top surgery transgender We Are More Than Our Chests  When I came home from the beauty parlor, after my first pixie cut, my father said to me “You look just like Barbra Streisand!” He meant it as a compliment. I broke into a tantrum. I did not want to look like Barbra Streisand. I wanted to look like Paul McCartney. The pixie cut was meant to “fix” the haircut that I gave myself with ordinary scissors. I wanted a “Beatle mop cut” but mostly I wanted to cut off my hair. I was still hoping that a hair cut could turn me into a boy. My father adored me. My father adored Streisand. She was a poor, big nosed, Jewish girl from Brooklyn who made it big. She was a star. I didn’t want to be a star. I didn’t want a girl’s nick-name. I didn’t like girlish diminutives or terms of endearment. I especially hated when my Grandmother called me Ameleh or Feygele; the former the Yiddishification of my birth name, the latter Yiddish for little bird. Years before I changed my name I forbid anyone to call me Ameleh or Feygele. I cringed at the sound. I didn’t want any part of being either. Barbra as Anshel in Yentl I didn’t see the movie Yentl (the 1983 musical, which Streisand produced, directed, re-wrote, and starred in). I remember seeing the trailers and thinking that Barbra Streisand looked way too much like Barbra Streisand. She didn’t look like a yeshiva boy to me. Her hair was still in a kind of pixie cut. The movie Yentl is based on Isaac Bashevis Singer’s short story Yentl the Yeshiva Boy. I’ve read the story. Yentl is the rabbi’s daughter, who, after her father’s death, cuts her hair, puts on men’s clothing, leaves town, changes her name to Anshel, and goes to study in a yeshiva. Anshel falls in love with Avigdor, another yeshiva boy (there is a complicated love triangle with Anshel being married off to Avigdor’s ex-fiance), and eventually Anshel confesses to Avigdor that he is a woman, not a man. Instead of living as a woman with Avigdor, Anshel deserts his wife and runs away again, to study in another town. Singer’s ending is unresolved; I was left wondering what Anshel’s life will be like, how many more times will he have to run away. Streisand changed the ending; Anshel reverts back to Yentl and gets on a boat bound for America. The movie makes a feminist statement, but the original story is a transgender tragedy. Yentl the Yeshiva Boy made me question what I would have done in Anshel’s place. I can’t picture myself going stealth or wearing a yarmulke and a shtreimel. Many years ago, in a misguided attempt to improve my style, I bought a black wool beret. When Donna saw me wearing it, she laughed, and said “You look just like Fernandel!” I would have preferred a comparison to a more debonair actor, but I am still much happier to be Donna’s Fernandel than her Barbra. Fernandel Notes: Fernandel was a French comic actor, starring in films from the 1930’s through the 1960’s. He was famous for his wide horse-teeth smile and his large nose. Yentl the Yeshiva Boy was published in Commentary magazine in 1962, you can read it here. The word feygele (little bird) is also slang for fairy or fag. The English words came first; the Yiddish usage is American, not old country. It was probably coined because of the phonetic connection.          Authenticity Barbra Streisand butch Fernandel feygele ftm genderqueer Isaac Bashevis Singer lesbian non-binary queer terms of endearment transgender Yentl the Yeshiva Boy You Look Just Like Barbra Streisand!  I came to a fork in the road and I moved the fork. When I started writing this blog, I stood on the border of butch and transgender, with one hiking boot firmly planted on each side. I was unable to budge. I had never truly, fully, thought of myself as a woman, but as an increasingly older boy. I had suppressed and avoided making a choice, all under the rubric of being butch. Grant Wood’s American Gothic, 1930 The sticking point was that as masculine as I felt and looked, I didn’t picture myself as a straight middle-aged white man. I could not authentically place myself in that construct. Conversely, I couldn’t tolerate picturing myself as a middle-aged woman. The dysphoria was too raw. No one over 40 wants to picture themselves as old, but I still wanted to be a boy. I did not know who I wanted to be like when I “grew up”. I knew I was trans, but I didn’t know what words to modify it with. I share a history with kids who were raised as girls but didn’t want to be girls. With tomboys, with kids who rebelled against their parents and teachers, who created their own internal boy lives, and who defiantly stayed true to their boy selves. Whether they identify as butch or transgender or any label on the spectrum. Whether they identify as women, men, both, or neither. I feel a kinship with masculine women and feminine men. With people who look queer. With transgender people who don’t always pass. With people who walk down the street and go about their business with their chins up knowing that other people are staring at them. I don’t always feel welcomed as trans when I’m in a transgender space, or as butch when I’m in a lesbian/gay space. I feel like an intruder. I haven’t been to a lesbian event in a while (unless Staceyann Chin’s wonderful one woman show, MotherStruck, at The Culture Project, counts). I’m not sure if it is because there are so few lesbian events, or if I’ve unconsciously stopped going to them. I’m not sure why I hold on to my butch identity except that it is my history and I am not ashamed of it. I don’t think I’m gaining any privilege by identifying as butch. While there is some status in the community for being a young and handsome butch; I there isn’t much for being a middle-aged butch. I am, however, keenly aware of my middle class and white privilege. In many ways I have it easier than my friends (pension, health benefits, nice home, partner, and dog), even if I can’t comfortably use a public bathroom. There is a myth, repeated and perpetuated by some butches and some trans men, that the difference between butches and trans men is that butches are female identified and trans men are male identified. This is an over simplification of butch identity (butches are lesbians, lesbians are women, QED butches are women), and ignores the complex relationship that butches have with their masculinity and gender expression. Some butches are comfortable being women and some are not. Butch harbors a range of masculinities, including trans masculinities. It saddens me when I see trans men try to distance themselves from butches, or advocate to take the T out of LGBT, as if they have nothing in common. It saddens me when butches claim that trans men are traitors, or when they try to save them as if they were misguided lost souls. If one is secure in one’s identity and life choices, then one should not be threatened by, or be dismissive of, someone who came to the fork in the road and took the other path. Gender isn’t a straight line spectrum. There is no imaginary or fixed line that I can cross that will take me from butch to transgender. The border is wherever I choose to place it. I admit that I keep shifting it, each time I take another step, so I can stay on that border. Update: One of the comments is noxious and is from someone who has harassed and doxxed trans women. I prefer not to engage with hate speech on my blog. Please google this person before engaging with them. Notes: There has been a lot of discussion about the loss of lesbian spaces across the country (some of which is transphobic and transmisogynist). Broadly published The History of Lesbian Bars which talks about why lesbian bars are disappearing/closing, and includes an excellent embedded video by JD Sampson and Drew Denny on the topic.  Butch Or Trans? butch Gender genderqueer lesbian lgbt MotherStruck non-binary queer Staceyann Chin transgender The Fork in the Road  Boys skating on Lake Placid, 1929 I got my skates sharpened and went ice skating at Wollman Rink in Central Park. Instead of getting in touch with my inner child, I got in touch with my inner curmudgeon. Once a week, from the age of 7 to maybe the age of 10, from October to April, my mother took me and my brother ice skating. My mother and I had identical red plaid skate bags and white figure skates. My brother had a black bag and black figure skates. Despite wearing white skates, I liked being on the ice. I didn’t mind falling or crashing into the side rails. I chased my brother around the rink, imagining that I was playing for the Rangers. I don’t know why my mother stopped taking us skating. When I was in my thirties I decided to start skating again. I was going to buy a pair of black figure skates, but the guy who was fitting me told me that the best and cheapest skates in my size were boy’s hockey skates. I didn’t need to be convinced. I also bought a black skate bag. Yes, the skate bag is made by “Transpack” and was bought way before I identified as trans. I skated regularly for a few years, then I tailed off. I started working out at the gym. Gracie needed to let off steam at the dog run in the evenings. I only got to the rink once or twice a season. The last couple of years I didn’t skate at all. The perfect time to skate in Central Park is at dusk, but I knew that if I waited for the perfect night to go skating then I would will miss another season. I looked at the Zamboni schedule (they close the rink for 45 minutes to smooth out the ice) and aimed for 3:00 PM. Central Park’s Wollman Rink was built in 1949 as a gift to the city from Kate Wollman. By 1980 it was run down, and in need of renovation. The city closed it, promising to reopen it in two years. In 1986 it was still under construction. Donald Trump offered to take over and pay for the project, but with a profitable catch (he would build and run a facility on the site). The city ended up paying for the project but Trump’s company oversaw the construction and still manages the rink operation. Trump plastered his name all over the rink, and on the Zamboni (in the largest letters that would fit on it). New Yorkers still call it Wollman Rink no matter how many signs the Trump Organization puts up. Pluto in Disney’s “On Ice”, see Notes. The Zamboni was just finishing up as I tightened the laces on my skates. I held back for a minute to let the other skaters go ahead of me. The combination of freshly sharpened skates and smooth ice scared me. The first time around the rink I moved slowly and timidly. When I started to fall, I remembered to pull my arms in and crouch, instead of flailing, and I regained my balance (several times). It took 6 or 7 laps to stop wobbling, and it never felt effortless. It may take me a couple of weeks to find my groove. My anxiety got in the way of having fun. I watched everyone else, trying to keep clear of the skaters who could neither steer nor stop. For 45 minutes I dodged tourists taking selfies. I was envious of the experienced skaters, gliding by with their hands in their pockets, weaving through the crowd, completely at ease. I realized I hadn’t been skating since the advent of selfie-sticks and Instagram. i saw a group of skaters ahead of me, posing in the middle of the ice. I skated slowly through their photo opportunity and headed for the exit. Notes: This article, from 1986, on Trump fixing Wollman Rink, shows that Trump has not changed much in 30 years. If you have a weakness for Disney cartoons, “On Ice” will take your mind off of all your troubles for 8 minutes.  Authenticity butch Central Park figure skating genderqueer Ice skating lesbian non-binary nostalgia queer transgender Wollman Rink The Ice Capades  One of my mother’s favorite ingredients. I’ve been cooking for comfort. Nothing fancy, nothing colorful, nothing trendy. Food to read by. Food to hunker down with. I used to think of cooking as women’s work. I know activity has no gender; the person doing the activity is gendered (or agendered), but I steer clear of activities I associate as feminine. At home, I never saw men in the kitchen unless they were mixing drinks or washing dishes. My mother did not enjoy cooking. She took advantage of the miracle of canned and frozen convenience foods to get dinner for four on the table every night. She believed that everything needed to be fully cooked to be safe to eat (including canned asparagus, frozen tater tots, and steak). My mother owned two infrequently used cookbooks (The Settlement Cookbook and The Joy of Cooking); most of her recipes came from the back of the soup can. Growing up, I put home cooking in the chore category with sewing, laundry, and cleaning. It didn’t occur to me that it could be a pleasure. I left for college with no domestic skills. A barbarian baby butch. My freshman year, I set up a mini-kitchen with a compact fridge, a double burner hot plate, and a broiler oven. The first time I cooked I blew the breaker for the electrical circuit. The next day I ran heavy-duty orange extension cords and put each appliance on a separate outlet. I ate bachelor food: spaghetti, Kraft Macaroni & Cheese, ramen noodles, canned soup, and sloppy joes. Leon lived down the hall from me. He was a skinny, long-haired, pot smoking, musicologist, and computer programming major. He taught me how to make a salad and how to shop for inexpensive fruits and vegetables at Haymarket. Instead of using glop from a bottle, Leon dressed a mixed green salad with olive oil, salt, pepper, and wine vinegar (in that order, tossing after each addition).  We’d smoke, listen to music, cook, and eat. Leon preferred to improvise, adjusting by taste. I’ve always preferred to start from a recipe. He could take any random assortment of food and make a meal from it (a spaghetti sauce, an open-faced grilled cheese sandwich, or a composed salad). After a semester of hanging out with Leon, I re-gendered cooking as a masculine activity (or at least as a Leonish one). Cooking as experimental science. Cooking as a research project. I starting buying cookbooks and testing recipes. I was determined to become a better cook to impress/seduce Donna. We became lovers before I mastered cooking anything. It was years before I understood the ingredients, the cooking method, when a dish was done, and what it should taste like. Now I can read a recipe and know whether it is going to work or not. When in doubt, I refer to my collection of cookbooks. I have over a hundred. Last week, on a cold day, I decided to make vegetarian chili. Not any chili, but one that I ate, over 25 years ago, at a peacenik potluck at Donna’s apartment. I had filed it away in the “must make that someday” slot in my brain. I recalled it as the “Silver Palate Vegetarian Chili”, which was close enough for Google. I don’t own The Silver Palate Good Times Cookbook, but I downloaded the chili recipe from it. It is a mainstream 1980’s recipe (no cilantro or dried ancho chiles). I made two changes (cut the oil in half, and used both cans of pinto and garbanzo beans instead of 1 cup of each to avoid the left over beans fermenting in the fridge). It came out exactly as I remembered it. It was worth the wait. Home cooking remains the only traditional women’s art/task/chore that I enjoy, or am good at. I’m a little embarrassed that I had to drag it over to the masculine side of the gender spectrum to own it, but I’m glad that Leon gave me the opportunity to do it. Maybe one day I’ll hang out with a guy who knits… Notes: Becoming a good cook was a rebellion against my mother. She did make a decent brisket (pot roast) and matzoh ball soup. I did not keep any of her recipes; the Eastern European dishes I make (borscht and mushroom barley soup) are adapted from my cookbooks. While I was writing this post I remembered an article I read on Cooking with Muxes, Mexico’s Third Gender. It explains how to make iguana stew.   Authenticity butch cookbooks Gender genderqueer lesbian muxes non-binary queer transgender vegetarian chili One Person’s Chore is Another Person’s Pleasure  Babe Didrikson, demonstrates her hurdling technique. 1932. In July, after my intake appointment at Callen-Lorde (NYC’s LGBT health clinic), my nurse practitioner told me that my cholesterol was high. I needed to lower it before I considered starting testosterone. I bought a bottle of fish oil. I carried a card in my wallet, with the name of a prominent cardiologist on it, for three months. When I called, the office manager told me that I can’t schedule an appointment until the cardiologist looks at my file. She gave me her name and the fax number, which I wrote down on the back of an envelope. The next day, I pulled up the Callen-Lorde patient portal expecting to send my results over. I attempted to log in. I tried every permutation of my user IDs and passwords. I phoned Callen-Lorde, and they realized that when they initially registered me they incorrectly entered my e-mail address in my profile (which explained why I never got any emails from them). I dropped by their office to straighten it out and re-register. I went home, set up the user name and password, wrote the password down on the patient portal information sheet, opened up my file to get my results, and couldn’t find them. I clicked around a lot and gave up. I was going to call Callen-Lorde back and ask where to find my test results, but it was late in the day and the medical records office was closed. I had to wait until the morning. I thought about calling Callen-Lorde every day, but there was always an excuse to put it off. I waited for a month. I dread making phone calls. I’m also not very good at filling out paper forms and sending them in. I’m better on email. I’ve been this way since I was a teenager. I’d rather scale a barbed wire fence than make a phone call. First, I needed to find the cardiologist’s card (which was no longer in my wallet) and the envelope on which I had written the information. I found them buried under a month’s worth of half-opened mail. Then I unsuccessfully tried to re-open the Callen-Lorde patient portal. I went back through the piles and found the piece of paper upon which I had scrawled my user name and password. I opened up the portal, and picked up my phone. It is all my mother’s fault. Negative and narcissistic, she expected people to be unhelpful or obstructionist. She thought everyone else got better treatment than she did. She felt slighted by every interaction. She believed that things went smoothly for other people, richer people, people with connections, big shots. In college,  when I got shut out of a class I wanted to take, I accepted it as fate and registered for a different, undersubscribed, class. There were other kids who argued with the registrar, or pleaded with the professor directly for permission to take the class, or begged their academic advisor to call on their behalf. They didn’t give up. They felt entitled to get into the class, and they probably did get in. According to Malcolm Gladwell, in Outliers, those kids were likely raised by a parent who upheld their self-worth, taught them how to negotiate with people in authority, and encouraged them to advocate on their own behalf. These are useful skills if you are transitioning and dealing with gatekeepers, insurance companies, and medical practitioners. I’m not good with the follow through. I get discouraged. I called Callen-Lorde. They confirmed that the results are not in my patient portal. I needed to fill out a Health Information Release Form, and request them to send my results to the cardiologist. The form was on the patient portal; all I needed to do was find it, download it, fill it out, sign it, and fax it back to them. It might take them a week to send out the results. It sounded reasonable. I printed the form and filled it out (twice, I screwed it up the first time). I got hung up on the fax it back part. I didn’t ask why I couldn’t email it to them, or if there was an easier or faster way to deal with it. I don’t have a land line or a home fax. When I’ve had to fax something I’ve used the fax at my office, but I only go in once a week. I didn’t want to find a copy shop and pay to fax. I googled “fax via internet for free”, read a couple of how-to articles, picked out a free service, and subscribed. I scanned my document, renamed it, filled out the fax form on MyFax, attached the document, and sent it. I called to confirm that they got it. It was exhausting. I still have two phone calls left to place, one to Callen-Lorde to check if they sent it, and one to the cardiologist’s office manager to make sure she got it. And then, maybe, I’ll get the appointment. Notes: Outliers is the third book of Malcolm Gladwell’s that I’ve read (I highly recommend both The Tipping Point and Blink). While it is does not directly address any LGBT issues, it made me think about why some of us have a lot of trouble dealing with bureaucracy, while others seem to sail right along. Still, I am in awe of those who are well-organized, keep track of where their paperwork is, and don’t procrastinate.  Butch Or Trans? butch ftm genderqueer lesbian Malcolm Gladwell non-binary Outliers paperwork procrastination queer transgender Transition The Paperwork Obstacle Course  Comic by Transitive Properties (see notes). Every time I get called Ma’am, it’s like getting slapped in the face with a dead fish. For years I’ve tried to adjust to strangers calling me Ma’am. I’ve tried to ignore it. To acknowledge it and let it roll off of me. To accept that in a cisnormative society I’m perceived as a masculine female or as a butch lesbian. To accept that some people must use only Sir, Miss, or Ma’am in their jobs. To accept that other people can’t imagine any other alternatives, even when one is standing right in front of them. I’ve tried to listen to the tone of the Ma’am. To guess the intention. Is it friendly? Is it innocent? Is it automatic? Is it sardonic? Is it because they don’t know what else to call me? I wish it didn’t bother me. There are far worse things going on in the world than the cashier at Whole Foods calling me Ma’am. Or the bank teller. Or the staff at the front desk of the gym. Yet each Ma’am smacks me in the face. I don’t know if calling me Ma’am counts as a microaggression, but it feels like one to me. Columbia Professor Derald Wing Sue defines microaggressions as “brief, everyday exchanges that send denigrating messages to certain individuals because of their group membership.” Microaggressions are “different from deliberate acts of bigotry because the people perpetrating microaggressions often intend no offense and are unaware they are causing harm.” Microaggressions “include statements that position the dominant culture as normal and the minority one as aberrant or pathological, that express disapproval of or discomfort with the minority group, that assume all minority group members are the same.” Microaggressors are ignorant, with a little arrogance and privilege thrown into the mix. They think they know how I identify by looking at me, and that everyone who looks like me identifies the same way. They believe it is my problem that I don’t neatly fit into one of two boxes, and that they have the right to assign me to the one that makes them most comfortable. They don’t see the need to educate themselves, because they don’t see their own prejudices. I don’t know if can respond to being called Ma’am honestly and without hostility. Without humiliating or putting the other person on the defensive. I don’t know if it is better to let it go or to say something. New Yorkers view all non-essential interactions as a delay. WIll someone on the back of the line sigh loudly, or make a snarky comment, if I start to say something? When other kids picked on me, my parents told me to ignore them. To develop a thick skin. To not fight back. To take the high road. I tried to not let the name calling and teasing bother me, but it was impossible to ignore. When I was in college, when I wore my MIT sweatshirt off campus, random people would ask me “Does your boyfriend go to MIT?” The question surprised me. Boyfriend? Me? I started answering with “I go to MIT and my girlfriend goes to Lehigh.” Some people took offense. Halfway through my first semester I stopped wearing the sweatshirt. I don’t want to feel diminished, obliterated, or angry, but I haven’t found a way to turn being called Ma’am into a neutral experience or to stop it from happening. I haven’t discovered the magic way to protect myself from the damage, or to regenerate the damaged parts. The best I can do right now is to acknowledge it, feel the pain, take a deep breath, remind myself of who I am, and go on with my life. Notes: Most media discussions of microaggressions, like Simba Runyowa’s piece in The Atlantic, focus on race and college campuses. Debito Arudou’s article, “Yes, I can use chopsticks..”, from the Japan Times, discusses the pro’s and con’s of challenging “friendly” microaggressions. The graphic I used for the post is one frame from a comic by Transitive Properties aptly titled “The Fish Metaphor”. You can see the whole comic here – it accurately captures my experience.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity butch ftm genderqueer lesbian ma'am microaggressions misgendering non-binary transgender Ma’am and Microaggressions  Calvin and Hobbes I don’t make New Year’s resolutions. I have a mental list of stuff I ought to do that I didn’t get around to doing in 2015. Some items are holdovers from 2014, perpetually on the verge of almost being attended to. I had great hopes for 2015, but it was a hard year. I’m glad it is over. I’m not going to sugar coat it. Donna’s open heart surgery, hospitalization, and recovery took a lot out of me. I was discouraged (and furious) on Labor Day weekend, when she missed a step, fell, and broke her ankle. She ended up in the hospital again, and then in rehab. She came home in a wheelchair, and slowly progressed to using a walker, and last week to using a cane. I love her, but I don’t love being her caretaker. We got on each other’s nerves. We adjusted. We are getting back to normal. We didn’t go to Italy (we cancelled the trip after Donna’s fall). I didn’t make time for ice skating. I never finished cleaning out my room (I did clear out a closet, a dresser, and take 6 quarts of coins ($712) to the bank). I let the mail pile up out of control again. I let my legal and financial paperwork fester. I didn’t call my brother. I did go for my top surgery revision, see a doctor for a physical, get a colonoscopy, maintain my weight, and go to the gym irregularly enough to not lose ground. I swam in the ocean in board shorts and a rash guard. I didn’t go to hell in a handbasket. I’m in a satisfactory place to start 2016. My wish for 2016 is to not set foot in an emergency room, hospital, or nursing home. I wish for Donna to feel strong enough to travel. I wish for a lower voice and for all men’s shoes to come in a size 7 (EU 40). I wish for a cloak of invisibility every time I walk into a bathroom, locker room, or dressing room. I wish for Gracie to stop barking as soon as I tell her to hush, not when she finishes the chorus. I want to reschedule the trip to Italy. I want to go ice skating in Central Park. I want to work with a dog trainer to get a handle on some of Gracie’s bad habits (she is impatient and petulant, insists of being the center of attention, and uses selective listening). I want to stop judging other people’s transitions – I don’t want to rank “passing” and medical transition at the top and everything else below it. I want to be respectful of all authentic manifestations of gender (regardless of how close they are to mine). I don’t want to question anyone else’s transness or butchness. I want to keep an open mind about Testosterone but I don’t want to start it just because it is on someone else’s bucket list. I need to clean up my room and throw stuff out or give it away (excess books, CDs, dust bunnies, old electronics, and junk stored under the bed and in desk drawers/file cabinet). I need to go through the bags and piles of mail and keep only what I need for my taxes and insurance. I need to see a cardiologist. I need to evaluate how much I spent this year. I need to take care of the loose ends of my name change. Aside from the wishes, which are not within my control, nothing seems impossible. Other than training Gracie, nothing even seems challenging, except interrupting my inertia and starting one task before I get distracted by something else. Notes: Ivan E. Coyote’s video “We all need a safe place to pee” speaks to my wish (and the wishes of many butch, transgender, and/or gender non-conforming people).  I hope Ivan performs in NYC in 2016. Tim Kreider’s essay “The Summer That Never Was” is an eloquent summary of why he never went to Iceland.  Authenticity butch ftm genderqueer lesbian new year's resolutions non-binary queer relationships trans enough transgender I’m Ready to Ring in 2016  Macy’s NYC My family does not celebrate Christmas. Although my parents would have preferred for it to be just another day, it was always clear that December 25th was the day we did not celebrate Christmas. We were Jewish, and had our own holidays. Our own candles. Our own food. Donna and I acknowledge Christmas two ways: we go to Alexis’s for waffles and Prosecco, and we tip the employees who work in our apartment building. We don’t exchange gifts. Growing up, I knew of other Jewish families who were just like us, except that they celebrated Christmas as a secular American holiday. Like Thanksgiving. They decorated an artificial tree, ate a spiral sliced ham, and exchanged presents. My parents said it was “A shanda.” A scandal. Jews should act like Jews. Jews like us go to the movies and out for Chinese food on Christmas. Jews like us do their shopping after Christmas to take advantage of the sales. My parents believed that all Jews, all over the world, were our kin. They divided the world into Jews and everyone else. I feel kinship with a subset of unobservant, over-educated, and under-employed queer New Yorkers. At Christmas, I feel a little at loose ends. I’m missing a party that I don’t want to attend. My Dad told me that Santa Claus didn’t exist. That parents, aunts, uncles, and grand parents buy all the presents. I understood that my life wouldn’t be any better if we were Christians or if we celebrated Christmas. I’d have to wear a red and green plaid dress with a black velvet Peter Pan collar, tights, and black patent leather Mary Janes. I’d get the same dolls, Nancy Drew books, and a purse. Different wrapping paper, the same problem.  My birthday is the day before Christmas. Every year I had a small birthday party on Christmas Eve. I didn’t like the attention. I suspected they weren’t really celebrating me. They were celebrating who they wanted me to be. My parents obliquely asked me what I wanted. I was afraid to tell them the truth. I hedged my answers. Asking for boy’s toys would start an argument. I tried to ask for toys that weren’t made specifically for girls or boys, e.g. a Spirograph or Labyrinth. Toys I could play with by myself and still feel like a boy. On my birthday, and on the first night of Hanukkah, presents would materialize under the piano in the living room. I dreaded opening them up. I couldn’t pretend to like the jewelry box that my grandmother gave me with the ballerina that twirled around to Fur Elise when I opened the lid. Instead, I silently wished for a new baseball glove, a Met’s cap, and black figure skates. I wished I wasn’t a girl. Birthday gifts are still tainted by association. I have nostalgia for gifts I never received. For something special. Donna tries her best, but it is an impossible task (unless she gets me a Labrador Retriever puppy). The best solution is for me to give Donna a list of the books I want, and for her to select a few to give to me. It takes the pressure off both of us, and I’m not sure Gracie would like a puppy. I’m glad this year is almost over. I’m looking forward to January, to peace and quiet, to the days getting longer, and to curling up with some new books. Notes: This article, Why Eating Chinese Food on Christmas Is a Sacred Tradition for American Jews, explains everything you always wanted to know about this tradition. Unfortunately, Donna doesn’t like Chinese food, but she will go out for Thai, Malaysian, and Indian food, so all is not lost.  Authenticity butch genderqueer Jews at Christmas lesbian non-binary queer transgender I Never Believed in Santa Claus  This month, I celebrated my two-year anniversary of top surgery, and my one year anniversary of my nipple revision. My chest is not perfect, but it is perfect enough for me. It is a little uneven. I have a small dog ear under my armpit on the left side (that I somehow didn’t notice because I was worrying about the size and height of my nipples). The scars are visible across my chest. I look like I had surgery. If I took testosterone it might not look as wonky when I’m shirtless. I’d have more muscles, a little less curvature, and maybe some chest hair to normalize it. Since I’m not planning on sunbathing or going topless in public, it will do. It looks great (I look great) with a T-shirt on. Even a thin light-colored T-shirt. I’m happy with it. Every day. It is a miracle. I’m relaxed about my chest, except when I’m in a locker room, or when I’m getting an EKG from someone who doesn’t know my medical history. When I’m dressed, I completely forget about it until I find someone staring at me trying to figure it out. Face, chest, face, chest, face, question mark. It feels natural to me. It doesn’t always look natural to them. Donna was concerned that my post top surgery euphoria would be short-lived. That my dysphoria would resurface and I’d focus on my face or on my bottom, that I would be restless and dissatisfied until I completed a binary transition. Even though I did not experience bottom dysphoria, and I never considered phalloplasty, I shared her fear. Throughout my childhood, adolescence, and adulthood my dysphoria was triggered, and still is triggered, by anything that made me look girly/feminine/female. A bad haircut, the wrong glasses, clothing that was clearly designed for girls/women, lace, pointy shoes or sneakers, tights, anything in pink, and anything that accentuated my curves. Including my breasts. It was all about clothes and my silhouette. Not about my private parts. The only time I am conscious of my vulva is when I am naked or wearing a women’s swimsuit. To keep dysphoria at bay, I swim in board shorts or loose trunks, and I wear a rash guard on top. I just stopped using the (women’s) locker room. I have no desire to pack, or wear an STP (stand-to-pee). I might feel differently if I was trying to use the men’s locker room or restroom. My genitalia do not define my gender, and I can’t quite imagine what they’d look like if they did. Maybe I’m in denial. Maybe I’m only avoiding situations that induce dysphoria. I’m tip-toeing around it at the gym. I work out in Brooks men’s 2-in-1 running shorts (boxer brief liners). They are mid-thigh, loose, and no-show. I feel like myself in them. Now that I’m wearing my gear to the gym, to avoid the locker room, I’m noticing how many people, men and women, work out in tights/leggings. Tights/leggings that show the whole package, that leave little to the imagination. I won’t wear anything that clings to my hips or gives me camel toe. Plus, leggings (even men’s leggings) are too girly for me. I prefer a little ambiguity. I have two requests for additional Hanukkah miracles. First, I’d like a pair of stretchy, but loose, warm track pants that I can wear over my shorts. Short inseam (27″), with zippers at the ankles so I don’t have to take my sneakers off and on. Side and back zipper pockets. In black, charcoal, or navy. Inconspicuous logo or no logo. Machine washable, durable, with no pilling. I’d also like a swift end to the Trump/Pence Presidency. Notes: l haven’t had to deal with my period in over 10 years, thanks to a hysterectomy. I’d probably have some bottom dysphoria if I still menstruated. This piece “Saying Goodbye To My Period” is about one trans man’s experience of getting cramps after he fully transitioned. This week’s photo is from George Brown College in Toronto, Canada. It was part of a project called “Free To Pee@GBC“.      Authenticity butch dysphoria ftm genderqueer gym locker room non-binary queer testosterone top surgery transgender Transition The State Of My Dysphoria and Hanukkah Miracles   A few months after I finally admitted out loud that I always wanted to be a boy, I decided to lose weight. At the time, I was a very chubby butch. I was struggling with both dysphoria and body size/image issues. I did not want to be the Pillsbury Doughboy. I wanted to be a trim and solid boy. I joined Weight Watchers in May, 2012. I hadn’t officially changed my name yet, and It was the first place I introduced myself as Jamie. Idiosyncratically, Weight Watchers is as big a part of my transition as changing my name. Part of making my body my body. While some use undereating (or restricted eating) to keep from having feminine curves, I was using overeating to hide my hips and breasts. I also used eating as a diversion, to keep certain thoughts and feelings suppressed. I started to eat smaller portions, and to cut down on butter and sugar. I tried to stop eating when I was angry or frustrated. I ate cottage cheese and yogurt. For the first time in my adult life I felt a little hungry in-between meals. It is still a strange sensation after years of stuffing myself into a stupor. It took a year and a half to get down to a weight that seems right for me. Now I pay attention to what I eat, how much I exercise, and how much wine I drink. I like being free from overeating. I don’t frantically devour oversized poppy-seed bagels to calm myself down. Maintaining my weight is no longer an incomprehensible mystery, but it does not come naturally. I keep going to Weight Watchers meetings for reinforcement. When I have a gender kerfuffle I am still tempted to eat away the awkwardness and humiliation. I don’t think I am ever going to be one of those people who just walk away. Who leave food on their plate because they feel full. This week Weight Watchers rolled out a “new improved plan” called Beyond The Scale™. I read the new handbook and watched the videos. The basic premise is the same but some of the guidelines changed (more emphasis on protein, less emphasis on fiber). It is a marketing ploy. I’m skeptical, and alienated. I’d almost forgotten how heterosexual and gender conforming Weight Watchers is. In their promotional material, all the women are femininely dressed and wearing make-up. The touted success story is about a young woman striving to lose weight to fit into her dream wedding dress. No one looks like me. Their narrative is not my narrative. Recently, I switched to a new meeting time and location because my old leader, Mindi, is running it. I’m not comfortable there yet. All I see is a sea of presumably straight middle-aged women who want to lose weight. I have to get past my preconceived idea of who they are. I have to participate in the group enough for them to get past what I look like. Inevitably, one of them is going to ask what brought me to Weight Watchers, and I am going to have to answer that I wanted to see the boy hidden under all that weight, and that it worked for me. Notes: I’ve previously written about my experiences with Weight Watchers here and here. For the record, I’m not on their payroll, and this is not a paid endorsement. Weight Watchers has helped me lose weight, but it is not for everyone and the long-term success rate is pretty slim. During WWI there was a propaganda campaign by the US Department of Agriculture and the Food Administration to get Americans to eat less meat and wheat. This article has a great selection of government posters with lots of background information. The behavior modifications that the Feds proposed back then sound a lot like the Weight Watchers program now.    Body Image and Clothing Beyond The Scale butch body image compulsive eating Diet genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer Smart Points transgender Weight Watchers Eat More Cottage Cheese  Last week I went a Weight Watchers meeting at a new location. Before weighing in, I asked the woman at the front desk where the restroom was. She handed me the men’s room key and told me it was down the hall and on the left. I put the key back down on the counter without saying anything and picked up the women’s room key. When I came back, I weighed in at 139 lb. I want to stay close to my goal weight of 140 lb. through the holiday season. I don’t want to use food or wine to numb out my feelings. This post is my reminder. You are valid. You don’t need to explain your identity. You can use as many labels as you need or no labels at all. You can use a label that doesn’t fit properly if the right label doesn’t exist yet. You can go back and forth between butch, queer, genderqueer, non-binary, and transgender. The label changes nothing. You don’t have to prove anything to anyone else. You know who you are inside. You don’t have to match up exactly inside and out. You need to look in the mirror and see yourself in the reflection. You are both fine the way you are and you need to change. There will always be discrepancies and inconsistencies. You don’t have to be defensive about them. Once you acknowledged your identity you began to transition. There is no starting line and no finishing line. There is no set of steps you have to follow. You don’t need to run as fast as you can. You don’t need to be constantly in motion. It is hard to speed things up, but it is possible to slow them down. It is not a race. It is not a competition. You are not trying to win a trophy. There are still questions to answer. Your questions are more important than anyone else’s. It is OK that the answer to some of them is “I don’t know.” You do not have to do what “everyone” else is doing. You can wait until the decision makes itself. You don’t have to explain. Be honest about your narrative. It doesn’t matter whether it follows the “standard” narrative or not. Own it. Accept that there are large parts of your childhood that you do not remember and may never remember. Accept that you can not change your past or heal your old pain. Accept that you survived for a reason. You are not a fake. You are not a poseur. You are moving from defining yourself by who you are not to defining yourself by who you are. There are many tools at hand. You do not have to use all of them. You have the right to pick and choose without having to explain yourself. You are valid whether you are on T, use the men’s room, or use masculine pronouns. Or if you don’t. You have the right to dress how you want and to look the way you do without having to explain yourself. You have the right to use the restroom or locker room you feel most comfortable in without having to explain yourself. Some people will go out of their way to humiliate you by staring or making comments. They will tell you that you don’t belong here. You don’t have to explain yourself. Notes: There are a smattering of genderqueer and transgender manifestos out there. My two favorites are this video and this blog post; parts of each of them resonate with me. Laurie Penny, the author of Unspeakable Things, recently came out as genderqueer. Their manifesto “How To Be a Genderqueer Feminist” isn’t exactly my manifesto, but it is a good read.    Body Image and Clothing butch ftm genderqueer lesbian manifesto non-binary queer transgender Weight Watchers You Don’t Need To Explain  I don’t remember learning how to tie my shoes. I grew up before Velcro and I refused to wear Mary Janes or flats. All of my shoes were lace-ups. I’m pretty sure I was taught the “bunny ears” method before I mastered the adult method. I made a double knot to avoid tripping on my laces. I am a walker. I started walking around the city when I was eleven. My school was 1.5 miles away; it didn’t take more time to walk than to take the M15 bus. I liked the independence and the adventure. I used my bus money to buy a pastry or a bagel at one of the bakeries on my route. I double knotted my shoes so I wouldn’t have to stop and re-tie them. The knot and I were both chubby and clunky. I own 13 pairs of shoes that lace up (five pairs of sneakers, two pairs of light hikers, two pairs of work boots, two pairs of chukka boots, a pair of boots for my transmasculine soul (see below), and a pair of insulated snow boots). I am hard on my shoes. I either wear down the soles or wear through the padding on the back of the collar. I try to rotate my shoes so they will last longer, but I notice myself mostly reaching for my light hikers. The ones with the fat round nylon laces that keep coming undone. The last thing I bought before I decided to stop shopping was a pair of Heritage Chippewa Service Boots in Tan Renegade. They are neither hiking boots, work boots, snow boots, nor dress boots. They are objects of beauty. I wanted them, and I bought them, even though I do not need them. They arrived unlaced. I also splurged on new shoelaces for my old work boots. I took the original laces out, cleaned the boots, applied two coats of leather protector, and started to thread in the new laces. I realized I didn’t know the best way to lace them up. One website lead to another, and I ended up watching a video on Gentleman’s Gazette on how to lace your dress shoes. At the end of the video, there was a tip for keeping your shoelaces securely tied. I am not knowledgeable about knots. I am probably the only butch who never wore bow ties or regular ties. I don’t go sailing or rock climbing. I was tying my shoes incorrectly. I pay attention to some things, but I am oblivious to others. I attribute it to growing up gender non-conforming. A double knot is an effective, but ugly way to tie a shoe. It is a honking big knot, not a dainty girly knot. It is not as bad as mending my pants with Duct Tape (one of the guys in my office), but it is far from an elegant solution. I often use brute force to fix my problems. I discovered I was tying my shoes with a “granny knot” instead of a “reef knot”, and that there was a sleeker way to make a double knot for extra security. Just the name “granny knot” was enough to make me change how I tied my shoes. The difference is which direction you wrap around for the second loop (and how the bow sits on the shoe). If your bow aligns with the length of your shoe, you are making a “granny knot”.  To align your bow with the width of your shoe (like a bow tie), you need to change the direction of the second loop, i.e. make a “reef knot”. For a sleek double knot, go around an extra time before you pull the second loop through. Video links in Notes. It is a simple change with a big reward. I have experimented with this all week and my laces have remained knotted in place. I have also been taking long walks in my new boots without rubbing up any blisters. Notes: Gentleman’s Gazette is chock-a-block full of articles and videos on classic menswear. There is something slightly creepy about Sven, the narrator, and his shoe obsession, but the videos are useful if you don’t have a clue. This is the link to Sven’s video on how to lace and tie your shoes. Surprisingly, there is a 3 minute TED talk by Terry Moore on this subject, and the Runner’s World gear guy also has something to say about how to tie your sneakers.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch Chippewa Boots genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer shoes transgender Learning How To Tie My Shoes  Some days I feel like I’ve accidentally stepped up to a carnival game called Guess What I Am. The odds are stacked against me. The game ranks secondary sex characteristics over gender expression and gender presentation. It ignores my intent. It doesn’t recognize the middle ground. When asked “What are your preferred gender pronouns (PGPs)?” I usually stammer out “they”. I hate pronouns. Most people use feminine pronouns when they talk about me. It doesn’t feel right, but I don’t stop them. Three years into writing this blog, I remain pronoun challenged. I am not comfortable with either he or she, or Sir or Ma’am, although Ma’am is the worst. I’m OK with they, Jamie, or nothing. “Nothing” is easy with honorifics and titles. On forms, I leave the title box blank. If I have to fill in something, I use Dr. or Prof. I haven’t seen Mx. on a form yet, and I’m not sure I’d use it. “Nothing” is difficult with pronouns. I choose to wear masculine clothing, have a masculine haircut, and carry myself in a masculine manner, but I don’t use masculine pronouns. I conflate masculine pronouns with taking testosterone. I read as masculine, but not necessarily male. I like how I look. I don’t do anything to make it easy to read me as female. When I go out I get Sir’d and Ma’am’d and a combination of the two. I cringe when people apologize after calling me Sir. Delta, painted by Frank Stella, 1958 Last week, Donna and I went to see the Frank Stella show at the Whitney Museum. Donna used a wheelchair provided by the museum. I pushed. We moved slowly through the show, tethered together. An intimate way to look. What struck me was not Stella’s painting, but his explanation of his work “What you see is what you see.” Stella was one of the first painters to break away from Abstract Expressionism. Art critics called his work Minimalism, because critics like to label things. The Tate Modern defines Minimalism as “no attempt is made to represent an outside reality, the artist wants the viewer to respond only to what is in front of them. The medium (or material) from which it is made, and the form of the work is the reality.” I want people to see what they see. Not to judge me by whether I “pass” as a man. I want them to stop trying to find the mark that identifies me as female. To let go of the one drop rule, the rule that says that my sex assigned at birth trumps everything else. I want them to see my reality. I am not someone who should be called Ma’am. I know a handful of people who identify as either non-binary, genderqueer, or gender non-conforming. Some of them use he. Some of them use they. Some go by she. If you tried to line them up and guess their preferred pronouns, chances are you’d get them wrong. It doesn’t correlate with how masculine or how feminine they look. It correlates with their reality, and how willing they are to insist that other people respect it. Notes: What you see is what you see is a precursor of What you see is what you get (WYSIWG). Or as the Dramatics sang it, Whatcha See Is Whatcha Get. The U.K. is ahead of the U.S. in using gender neutral honorifics such as Mx., however, according to this article in Time, Mx. is slowly worming its way into American usage. Misconceptions about Mx., from the blog Spacious Perspicacious, is an excellent short analysis of the word.  Authenticity butch Frank Stella gender neutral pronouns gender non-conforming genderqueer lesbian minimalism non-binary queer transgender Step Right Up Ladies and Gents  PHOTO: ANDREW RENNEISEN/GETTY IMAGES Saturday afternoon I went to a vigil at the arch in Washington Square Park. I went in solidarity with all people; New Yorkers, Parisians, and Beirutis. It was a silent, somber, vigil. I overheard a smattering of people whispering in French. I stayed for an hour; observing, reflecting, and quietly mourning. Their losses and my losses. I could not stop myself from people watching. It was cool, and sunny. A day for a jacket, gloves, and a scarf. No hat. I stood next to a French man who wore his scarf in a particularly French way; wrapped around his neck with the edges tucked under. Graceful, casual, natty. I made a note of it. I felt a flare of envy. I wanted to be a boy, to look like that man, and then it subsided. Five years ago it would have sent me into a tailspin. Every loss is connected to every other loss. Whether I am mourning for someone who was in the wrong place at the wrong time, or for someone who could not find a way to live authentically in their own body. Whether they were killed by a suicide bomber, by AIDS, or by their own hand. I went to the vigil on the spur of the moment, wearing the same clothing I had worn to the dog run. Jeans, a flannel shirt, hiking boots, a thin down jacket, a neck gaiter, and gloves. Everything was relatively new; this year’s or last year’s. I make excuses for buying new clothes. I lost weight. I had top surgery. My old clothing was joyless and a couple of sizes too big for me. I project my hopes onto my clothes; I want them to make me feel like I belong here. I know I am trying to compensate for all the times I was told, or I told myself, that what I wanted was inappropriate, impractical, too masculine, or too expensive. That I was too fat to wear horizontal stripes, large plaids, or anything orange or red. That I was too old to shop in the boy’s department, and too short to shop in the men’s department. That I shouldn’t draw attention to myself. That I was a lost cause. I can not make up for lost time or lost opportunities. I can only mourn them. I am shopped out. One more shirt, sweater, belt, or pair of jeans, socks, sneakers, or boots will not make me feel whole. It will only drain my bank account. It will not lessen my sadness. In the late 1980’s and early 1990’s, when I was in ACT UP, I attended dozens of funerals and memorials, but I refused to go to candle-light vigils. I didn’t want to stand passively in the dark, holding a candle that refused to stay lit, calling out the names of the dead. Instead, we chained ourselves to the White House. We threw the ashes of our comrades onto the White House lawn. I tried to extinguish my grief with my anger, but I ended up numb. After the attacks on the World Trade Center, I occasionally felt like a target. Not afraid, just at risk. Sometimes I feel that as a visibly butch/queer person. To me, there is no difference between being a random target or a specific target. Hate is hate. I live in New York. I don’t expect to feel safe. This week I will go to another vigil, on the Transgender Day of Remembrance. Last year they read the names of the murdered, from all around the world. Most of the murders took place in the U.S. and Brazil. The organizers did not read the names of the people who committed suicide. I know one trans man this year who killed himself. I will go to the vigil to say and remember Owen’s name. Notes: The Gender Identity Project in New York created this short video for the Transgender Day of Remembrance. Earlier this year, Jean Carlomusto produced a movie for HBO about Larry Kramer. In Love and Anger has a lot of ACT UP footage in it. It brilliantly captures the anger and desperation of that era. If you didn’t see it, there is an upload of it on You Tube here.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity beirut attacks butch genderqueer non-binary paris attacks queer sadness shopping suicide transgender In Remembrance  Operation! At 9 AM I hopped into a taxi with my friend Tracey, and we zig zagged through midtown traffic to Dr. Weiss’ office. He and I talked about the pucker in the front of my chest and the size of my nipples. I apologized for being a fussbudget. He reassured me. Lots of people want their nipples redone. I stayed vaguely awake during surgery. I kept my eyes closed, but I could feel where he was working. Whenever I winced he gave me another shot of local anesthesia. It was over in less that an hour. He dressed my wounds with three 3×3 inch gauze pads and some tape. He told me to refrain from showering for 24 hours, to change the dressing daily, and to take it easy for a couple of days. Come back in two weeks; call if there is any discharge or anything unusual. I had a little trouble buttoning my shirt and tying my sneakers. Although I am a veteran of several surgeries, I forgot to wear slip-ons. I also left the after care instructions in his office. I was home by noon. The pain meds wore off at 4 PM. I took a Tramadol that was left over from my last surgery, then a few hours later I took another. Before my top surgery last year I read every “tip for top surgery” that I could find. I wore sweat pants,  a loose buttoned shirt, and slippers on surgery day. I bought bendy straws for drinking. I moved all of my breakfast and coffee-making paraphernalia to the kitchen counter. I stockpiled food and drink so I wouldn’t have to shop or carry anything heavy. I stacked up books to read. I laid out gauze pads and tape. I lined up dog-walkers for Gracie. It didn’t occur to me that the revision was going to hurt, and that It was a miniature version of the original surgery, without the drains. It didn’t occur to me that I was going to have a bunch of fresh stitches and new scars on my chest (the year old ones are healing nicely and starting to fade away). Or that for the first 48 hours I wouldn’t be able to comfortably raise my hands above my shoulders. As Yogi Berra said “It’s deja vu all over again.” Fortunately, my neighbor, Carolyn, heard I had surgery and knocked on the door to see if she could walk Gracie for me. Donna and I ordered in sushi for dinner. I rummaged in the closet for an unopened box of gauze pads, a spare roll of surgical tape, and an old tube of bacitracin ointment. I took more Tramadol to get to sleep. My chest was too sore to sleep in my normal position. I slept on my back, and snored away. Dr. Weiss told me that about 10% of his top surgery patients ask for revisions. Initially, I viewed it as a 10% failure rate, even though I regard my original surgery as a success. His perspective is that it is intricate and hard to get it just right on the operating table. Each patient’s body is a puzzle. Each patient is looking for something slightly different. He takes pride in customizing the results. I never had a clear idea of what I wanted my chest to look like, or what a “perfect” chest would look like. I didn’t want to bind anymore. I didn’t want to see my breasts in the mirror. It isn’t easy to make a female chest look like a male chest, especially if you are not on testosterone. It is impossible to predict exactly what it is going to look like, how it is going to settle in, how you are going to wear it. My reconstructed chest is just one part me. To everyone else, it is probably a minor, almost unnoticeable part. A couple of days after the revision I was able to pull on a T-shirt. I looked in the mirror, and then remembered that I had extra thick gauze pads on my nipples. I took off the shirt, took off the gauze pads, and looked in the mirror again. I ignored the stitches and the bruising. The changes are subtle, but I see the difference. I put the T-shirt back on, took another look, and decided that it was worth it. Notes: I remember Operation from my youth, but I didn’t realize that it is still sold in stores. There is nothing on the board that resembles top surgery, but if I could, I would like to have my “bread basket” removed, as well as my “brain freeze”.    Body Image and Clothing butch chest reconstruction revision ftm gender non-conforming genderqueer lesbian nipple revision non-binary queer top surgery revision transgender My Top Surgery Revision  Tomorrow I’m going in for a revision to my chest. I’m having a small pucker in my left pec “let out”, and I’m having my nipples slightly down-sized in diameter and height. I’m still a little ambivalent about it. I like my chest. I ignore the flaws, but I’m still a little self-conscious of my nipples. I’m aware of them when I’m working out in the gym, when my T-shirt is sweat soaked, when I’m watching my form in the mirror. I could live with them as is. If I had to fly to another city for the revision, I might not do it. The surgery is straightforward. It is in Dr. Weiss’ office, not in the hospital. He is using twilight sedation instead of anaesthesia. I should be in and out in an hour and a half. I should be back to my usual activities by the weekend. The surgery is the easy part. Asking a friend to take me there, wait for me, and take me home is the grueling part. I procrastinated asking, and then belittled myself for being unable to ask. It is a hard cycle to break. I’m not ashamed of being butch and trans. I’m ashamed of being butch and trans and needing help. Somewhere, in the back of my brain, I don’t think it is OK to ask people for help if it has anything to do with being trans. When I was working full-time, and had thirty people reporting to me, I had no problem asking my staff to do work. I was confident. I knew what was reasonable and what was out-of-bounds. I’m not confident in my personal life. I’m ashamed to discuss top surgery with anyone who is not transgender. I’m ashamed that I need/want a revision. I’m ashamed that I’m not on testosterone and I don’t use he/him pronouns. I’m ashamed that I don’t have it all figured out. I’m ashamed that I haven’t embraced a specific label. It is all internalized transphobia, and I am ashamed that I have that too. I am ashamed of being ashamed. I didn’t tell Donna I needed someone to come with me. I didn’t want to her to feel guilty about not going with me (she has a broken ankle). I talked about it a little in therapy. The clock ticked forward. I went back and forth with myself about raising it at my transmasculine support group meeting. I didn’t message the group members before the meeting, or ask directly at the beginning of the meeting. I was afraid that no one would feel responsible to volunteer, and that they’d all be hoping someone else would go with me. I was afraid of the awkward silence. Even though it is a support group, and I needed support, I didn’t want them to think I was desperate. I have people in my life that I ought to ask, and I needed to figure out why I couldn’t. I asked the group to help me ask Tracey, Tracey is someone I’ve known for years – I met her right after I adopted Lena, my first dog. At least twice a week we walk up to the dog run together. We talk about our dogs, the neighborhood, and other people’s dogs. We talk about Donna and we talk about Randy, her late husband. She’s seen me go through my name change and top surgery, but I’ve never had a long conversation with her about it. Or about being trans. Or about shame. I hate telephones. After the meeting I composed and edited a short direct text to Tracey. The next morning I sent it out, and held my breath. A half hour later she texted back that of course she would go with me. For her, it was no big deal. Unless she reads this, she will have no idea how big a deal it is. I’d like to believe that I learned an important lesson from this, instead, I feel like I dodged a bullet. To learn the lesson I will have to ask for help, and ask again, and ask again, until I believe that asking is the most natural thing in the universe. Notes: There is an art of asking. It requires that you believe that you are a part of a community and trust that the people in it want to help you. Dar, from An Exacting Life, referred me to Amanda Palmer’s book The Art of Asking (in real life Dar is a librarian and Amanda is a punk-cabaret performer). Before writing the book, Amanda Palmer gave an excellent 14 minute TED Talk on the subject, which you can watch here. Thank you Dar!    Body Image and Clothing afraid to ask for help anxiety butch Dr. Weiss genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer The Art of Asking top surgery revision transgender An Avalanche of Shame  First, I need to find a less awkward way to tell medical staff that I had top surgery. Second, I need to learn how to ask for help when I need it. Third, no one wants to hear about my colonoscopy. When you see a new doctor, you fill out a form and list all of your surgeries. I’ve had surgery to repair a torn meniscus (knee), to remove fibroid tumors, to remove my uterus (partial hysterectomy), and to remove my breasts (top surgery). The nurse at East Side Endoscopy didn’t know what I meant by top surgery, so I told her I had a bi-lateral mastectomy. She asked if it was for cancer, and I said no, and left it at that, but I felt her question dangling, unanswered. I only had gotten three hours of sleep, and I hadn’t had any coffee, and I nearly said cosmetic, but I caught myself. My transition, no matter how ambiguous it is, no matter how much it has to do with how I look, is not cosmetic. I’m still angry that my health insurance refused to pay for top surgery. They claimed it was not medically necessary. I couldn’t find the words to explain to the nurse that top surgery is gender confirmation surgery or to tell her which gender it confirmed. I’d like to find a phrase that is clear. That isn’t pathologized. That doesn’t sound like a euphemism. That tells the truth. I’m trying to convince myself to meet with a cardiologist. There will be an EKG with sticky electrodes on my chest, right near my scars. There will be a discussion about previous surgeries. There will be questions. My total cholesterol level (282) is the only thing standing between me and testosterone. I want to get it under control so that the only thing standing between me and T is me. I kept forgetting that I’d scheduled the colonoscopy, and that I needed someone sign me out (and presumably take me home). Normally, I rely on Donna, however, since she broke her ankle, is using a walker, and is barely able to get in a taxi with my assistance, it seemed unwise to make her come with me, or sign me out. I nearly cancelled and rescheduled it. I didn’t want to ask anyone else to pick me up. I suck at asking for help. I have three friends who would do anything I asked, but I hesitate asking. I don’t have family other than Donna, and in the back of my mind I think you only ask your family for help. It is a holdover from childhood. “You got yourself into the problem. You get yourself out of it.” I’m good at figuring out how to do things by myself, but some things, like being signed out of surgery, are impossible. I hate asking someone to give up a day, and a day’s salary. I hate making a request that is difficult to refuse. I don’t want to inconvenience anyone. I don’t want to be an obligation. I don’t live in a tight-knit community where people practice mutual aid. In my New York, if you can’t do something yourself, you hire someone to do it for you. You can get anything delivered, almost instantaneously. It is a service economy. I considered Craigslist, but then I came to my senses. Plus, I couldn’t figure out what to look under. It turns out you can hire a home health aide to take you to and from medical appointments. I asked a friend. I make an exception for Gracie. When Gracie needs an extra walk, or to stay with someone overnight, or to make an emergency trip to the animal hospital, I am able to ask for help and get it from my dog-owning friends. But, it is different if the help is for me. I need to get over this, and bark for help when I need it. Notes: Mutual aid is a term coined by Peter Kropotkin, a Russian anarchist. Mutual aid societies were popular in the U.S. amongst immigrants; some groups were based on your profession/trade and others were based on your country or town of origin. Amish barn raising is a form of mutual aid, as are freecycling programs, and babysitting cooperatives. I’m rereading this article from the New York Times on how to ask for help…. The colonoscopy went smoothly. The doctor cut out a polyp and sent it off to the lab. I’m hoping he will tell me that I don’t need to come back for another 5 to 10 years.  Authenticity asking for help butch colonoscopy ftm genderqueer lesbian mutual aid non-binary queer testosterone top surgery transgender Two Things I Learned From My Colonoscopy  A genuine Jockey underwear advertisement, circa 1955. There is an empty pouch in my boxer briefs. I notice it, but it doesn’t bother me. I don’t pack. I never thought I was missing a penis. I was envious of my brother because he was a boy; not because he had a penis. I kept hoping that I’d wake up and be a boy. I prepared myself for this by practicing boy things, including standing up to pee. I gave that up after a few days, and went back to memorizing baseball statistics and solving math puzzles. There is a hole in my vocabulary. I rarely talk about my genitals or anyone else’s. I don’t like to use either scientific terms or slang. The words sound foreign to me. Growing up, I pretended there was nothing there, the way male and female dolls are smooth and intact under their clothes. Maybe because I was attracted to women, I didn’t pay any attention to penises. They seemed superfluous, and vaguely unclean, except on marble statues in the museum. Maybe because they seemed so important to everyone else I decided they were unimportant to me. Denial and dissociation as a defense against dysphoria. I refused to wear fancy underpants. The kind with lace or hearts. I really wanted to wear my brother’s Fruit of the Looms. I knew not to ask (once in a while I stole a pair), and settled for six packs of plain white panties. When I grew up, I bought the simplest cotton hipsters I could find. White, black, gray, or navy. Jockey for Her. I pulled on my Levi’s to cover them up. Then it occurred to me that I could wear whatever underwear I wanted, regardless of what went in them, or what they were designed to cover. After a short and expensive period of experimentation, I rejected tighty-whiteys. I like low-rise boxer briefs (and trunks). In cotton, with a little spandex, without the Y fly/opening. I have striped, plaid, neon, and flowered boxer briefs. They all have a little extra room in the front. I doubt I’ll ever fill that pouch. I’ve looked at packers and STPs (stand to pee) and they don’t appeal to me. A little bulge in my crotch is not going to affect whether I am read as male, butch, or something in-between. I don’t think adding a packer would make me feel more comfortable, the way that binding and top surgery did. I was dysphoric about my chest and my silhouette, but not my bottom half. It could be that I dealt with my bottom dysphoria early on by wearing Levi’s. I started right around puberty. I liked how Levi’s looked. I liked how they felt. I liked that they had a button fly. I liked that everyone knew they were men’s jeans. I didn’t notice that they also had a little extra room in the front. I don’t know why it took me so long to make the jump from jeans to boxers. Jeans tell a story; boxers are private. My boxers don’t show, except when I change at the gym. I don’t think the guy at the laundromat cares what I drop off for him to wash, dry, and fold. Donna thinks they are cute compared to what I used to wear, although the empty pouch makes her anxious about what is on the horizon. Notes: Mae West would have had a field day with that pistol packing boy; it is a real print advertisement from 1955. “To Pack or not to Pack” by Rocco Kayiatos, tells the story of one trans man’s decisions to pack and unpack, and ends with a half-dozen other guys chiming in on the subject. “How the Boxer Brief Got Into America’s Pants” details the recent changes in the design and marketing of men’s underwear.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity bottom dysphoria butch dissociation ftm Gender genderqueer lesbian non-binary packer and stp queer transgender The Empty Pouch in My Boxer Briefs  Donna liked the purple dress in the middle. I went out and bought four dresses. Not for me. For Donna. She decided that, while her leg is in a cast, it would be easier to get dressed and undressed if she wore a dress. It would keep her from getting her knickers in a twist. I suggested that she could go on-line and order a couple of inexpensive cotton dresses. Instead, Donna sent me to Gudrun Sjoden. Gudrun Sjoden is not a store I would normally shop in. It is full of bright-colored, loose, flowing, and artsy Scandinavian women’s clothing. The clothes come in bold stripes and flowered patterns. They are meant to be worn in layers. It is a look that one either likes or loathes. Other than some striped socks, there is nothing in the store that I would consider wearing. While I wouldn’t wear the clothes, I am attracted to the kind of woman who does. It is Donna’s favorite store. I arrived in blue jeans, a black turtleneck, a black Patagonia fleece pullover, and hiking boots. I brought along a flowered red tunic, from last winter’s collection. Donna wanted something just like it, but longer. All the other shoppers, and the sales staff, were wearing Gudrun Sjoden outfits. I felt uneasy; I knew I didn’t belong there. I approached a salesperson, and asked for help. I told her that my partner broke her ankle, is wearing a cast, and wants to get a couple of dresses. The dresses should be loose, stretchy, and long, but not too long. Preferably in red, maroon, or purple; preferably striped or flowered. I showed her the tunic. She nodded and we looked at every dress in the shop. She picked out an armload of dresses that might work. Then I remembered the last time someone handed me an armload of dresses. I was thirteen. I had already stopped wearing girl’s clothing. My father died, suddenly, unexpectedly. I was too heavy to fit in my old dresses or my mother’s. I didn’t have anything to wear to his funeral.  In the midst of mourning, my mother dragged me to S. Klein’s on Union Square. Klein’s was a slightly seedy discount fashion store. I hated it because it had communal dressing rooms. They were full of women bulging out of their undergarments. I agreed to let my mother pick out the dresses. I agreed that I would take the first one that fit and didn’t need shortening. For once, I did not make an argument. She came back with an armload. I tried each one on. I was embarrassed to get undressed in front of those women. I was afraid to look at their bodies. I didn’t want them looking at mine. I didn’t care how fat or how ugly I looked in each dress, I just wanted to get it over with. I can picture the dress we selected, a royal blue and white horizontal stripe short-sleeved knit, but I have no memory of wearing it. I selected four dresses for Donna from the pile and took them home. Donna decided to keep two. I returned the others. The same salesperson helped me with the return. I still felt like an interloper. On my way home, I stopped in at the Patagonia store. It is up the block from Gudrun Sjoden. I’d been thinking about buying a new jacket to layer under my Gore-Tex shell. I tried on a few of the men’s jackets, but the smalls were too long and too tight around my hips. The mediums were too big everywhere else. Discouraged, I reluctantly tried on the women’s jackets. They “fit” but I had a dysphoric reaction to the jacket’s contours (feminine) and how I looked in them. I felt myself start to panic. The salesperson suggested that I try on the boys’ XXL (size 18). I had tried the boys’ down sweater on last year, before top surgery, and thought it was too small. This time, it fit just right. And it came in black. And it was cheaper than the adult version. I bought it as the antidote to shopping at Gudrun Sjoden, and went back to being me. Notes: To get a more critical viewpoint on the design aesthetic of Gudrun Sjoden, you can read the article “Glinda Would Be at Ease” from the New York Times. Donna fits into category “a” – the empathic therapist.  Body Image and Clothing butch genderqueer Gudrun Sjoden lesbian non-binary queer relationships S. Klein shopping while butch transgender Shopping for Dresses While Butch and Trans  I went back to the gym after taking two months off. As soon as I entered the New York Sports Club, I remembered why I hadn’t been back. I didn’t want to use the women’s locker room. There have been several critical moments in my transition where parts of my routine that I could previously tolerate suddenly became unthinkable. Where my ability to dissociate snapped. Where the cognitive dissonance broke the sound barrier. Every time I entered the women’s locker room I steeled myself for a question, a comment, or a dirty look. Unpleasant incidents are not unusual when you are butch, gender non-conforming, queer, or transgender. I thought I should be strong enough to handle the occasional negative reaction. That it was their problem, not mine. I expected that as my dysphoria decreased, as I became more comfortable in my body, I would feel more entitled to use the locker room. Instead, the opposite happened. I felt increasingly out-of-place there. I was forcing myself to do something that felt wrong. To me. I was actively  misgendering myself. I need to go to the gym. Regularly. By any means necessary. It makes me feel strong and solid. It helps me keep my weight down. It gives me a more masculine profile. It keeps my anger in check. There are no negatives attached to the gym, except the locker room. The obvious answer is to stay out of the locker room, even though it it more convenient to change and shower there. Do what the straight men do (to avoid being cruised). Wear work out clothing to the gym; get sweaty and shower at home. Don’t worry about looking gross. It felt a little strange to put my sweatpants on over my shorts. To put my sweatshirt on over my T-shirt. To put my down jacket on top of everything. It is only a ten minute walk to the gym. My ankles got cold because there was a gap between the top of my no-show socks and the bottom of my sweatpants. My shorts rode up and bunched around my crotch. I felt like the Michelin Man in diapers. I took the sweats and my jacket off. I put the pile of discarded garments on the windowsill. I did my warm ups in my shorts and T-shirt. It was not a glamorous solution, but it was way better than using the locker room. It will be easier in the spring. Fewer layers. I was dripping wet by the time I finished. I did some stretches. I dried off with the tiny towel the gym provides and I put my sweatpants and sweatshirt back on. I didn’t care how sweaty and gross I looked. I didn’t care about walking home in the freezing cold. I cared that I worked out without feeling like an interloper, without worrying if someone was going to call for security or say something sarcastic. I cared because I’m never going to use the locker room again. Notes: This is a link to the Change Room Project, an art project which was on display earlier this year at the University of Toronto. The project’s goal was to raise awareness about the anxiety and fear that some LGBTQ people experience in the locker room. There is also a 6 minute podcast about it from CBC Radio here. When I listened to the podcast, I started to think that I should reconsider, and try to find a way to reclaim my space in the women’s locker room. Then I realized that I’m past that point, and that there is no turning back.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch ftm genderqueer gym lesbian locker room non-binary queer transgender working out On Not Using The Locker Room  Donna came home from her three-week stint in rehab (she broke her ankle in two places and needed surgery to repair it). I wheeled Donna through the lobby, into the elevator, and down the hall to our apartment. I opened the front door and got stuck with the wheelchair in the foyer. When we bought our apartment, I insisted on being in a “roll-in” building with an elevator. For over twenty years I assumed our apartment was vaguely accessible. Wheelchairs, at least the basic ones provided by Medicare, need a lot more space for navigating than I imagined. I thought I had cleared a path through the apartment, but it was too narrow. I had to move the hutch (full of Donna’s mother’s good china) just to get her into the apartment. To get into the living room, I had to shift the dining table, the coffee table, and the couch. To get into the bedroom, I had to move the bed, the dresser, and her reading chair. I knew that neither the wheelchair nor the walker would fit through the bathroom door, which is 24″ wide. Even the knee scooter is a tight fit. She can use the scooter to get to the shower, but it is awkward for the toilet. I wouldn’t want to do that maneuver if I was in a hurry to pee. The commode will be in the bedroom until she is more mobile. We have help. Medicare pays for a visiting nurse (twice a week), a home health aide (five times a week for four hours a day), and a visiting physical therapist (twice a week). The first person who came to visit was Pema, the visiting nurse and case manager. She is from Nepal. I opened the door and introduced myself as Donna’s partner. She was friendly and talked with both of us about the services that the agency provides. She seemed completely non-judgemental. The second person who came to visit was Fatou, the home health aide. She is from Senegal, and wears a hijab. I introduced myself as Donna’s partner. After Fatou got settled in, I ran some errands and went to the gym. Donna thinks the aide is there to help her, but I think she is there to give me a break. While I was out, Fatou referred to me as “he”. Donna was flummoxed and did not explain our relationship. It remains unexplained.  The third person who came to visit, was Miriam, the physical therapist. She is an East Coast lesbian in her sixties. I introduced myself as Donna’s partner. She got the butch part of the picture, but through her own lens. I’m not sure she saw the trans part. She ordered me to roll up all the rugs and rug pads. She ordered Donna to stop relying on the wheelchair and to start using the walker to get around the apartment. Donna is a good patient. She accepts that until she heals, she is dependent on me, Pema, Fatou, and Miriam. She doesn’t mind asking for help. She is willing to do her exercises. I’m impatient. I can’t see Donna’s broken ankle heal, the way I could see her recovering from heart surgery. I get rattled every time Donna interrupts me to get her something. I get flustered when Donna makes a second request while I’m in still the middle of doing the first one. I get stressed if she needs to use the toilet while I’m cooking dinner. I don’t like to multi-task, especially when I’m tired. I didn’t think Donna’s broken ankle would be harder for me to handle than open heart surgery. It is not a life and death situation. It is just a case of twelve weeks of limited mobility and a narrow doorway. We are only in week five. I’m impatient for our lives to get back to normal, and to rebook that cancelled trip to Italy. Notes: Since writing this, Fatou requested to have her assignment changed, and Donna told the agency that they need to assign us someone who is comfortable working with us. Gracie is not happy about all the people coming to assist us, and is banished to my bedroom/study when any of them are here. She is, however, very happy to have Donna home, as am I.  Authenticity accessibility butch butch/femme relationships coming home from rehab genderqueer lesbian non-binary patience queer transgender wheelchair The Patient and the Impatient  I broke down and bought a television set and a Roku box. I feel like a traitor. It is as if I joined the Republican Party. I haven’t watched television since I was seventeen. I think of it as mindless heteronormative entertainment. In theory, I bought the TV for Donna. She is housebound, nursing a broken ankle. In February, when she was recuperating from open heart surgery, we curled up together on the couch and watched movies on my iPad mini. It was cozy, but the iPad mini screen is tiny. The new TV is a 32″ diagonal. It looks big to me, even from the couch. By American standards, 32″ is small. I have to reconcile myself with owning a television set, even if I am not signing up for 500 reality channels. I already have Amazon Prime and Hulu Plus on my iPad; I will probably sign up for 30 free days of Netflix. I keep telling myself I traded up from the 7.9″ iPad mini screen to a 32″ monitor. I’m still watching only what I choose to watch. I’m not watching the Kardashians. I’m not a TV person. I’m a recovering stereophile (music equipment geek). My distaste for TV was made obsolete by streaming. Streaming blurred the line between computers, stereos, radios, televisions, cameras, and phones.  Digital media corrupted my identity. Another victory for the binary. My idealized self is a serious reader. In my fantasies, I read The New York Times, The New York Review of Books, The New Yorker, and The Nation – cover to cover. I read while sitting at my kitchen table or on a bench in the sun drinking a thermos of coffee with a well-behaved dog laying at my feet. I am always in the middle of an interesting book, and I remember minute details of books I read 10 years ago. The trite reality is that these publications pile up, collect dust, and get thrown out, sometimes without me even leafing through them. I get annoyed that most of the articles are written by white guys who are barely alive. Their stories don’t hold my interest. I don’t even have a kitchen table to read at. I have a window ledge and a stool to perch on. I can balance my coffee but I can’t spread out the paper. I get my news from NPR. When I try to sit outside and read, Gracie nudges me for attention or barks at the pigeons. I can’t concentrate. I have an ever-growing stack of books I want to read. I no longer remember the names of the books I read last year or who authored them. I have some serious reading sweaters with well-worn elbows and suede patches. I can master the tweedy look, but I’m only fooling myself. It just looks like I’m reading. It took less than an hour to set up the TV, hook up the Roku box, and link my internet accounts to it. I tested it by clicking on the first icon that came up on Hulu.  I ended up watching a short segment of South Park. The episode with Caitlyn Jenner. This is why I hate TV. I didn’t want to laugh at it, but it was simultaneously funny and offensive. I turned it off. I’d rather be bored. I don’t want to be a party to making fun of what another trans person’s body looks like. Well meaning friends have suggested movies, PBS shows, and BBC mini-series for us to watch. I have a list and a queue set up. I’m in charge of the remote. Donna is fine as long as she is sitting still. She can’t transfer from the wheelchair to the couch, bed, or commode without help. Gracie and I will be mostly housebound with her. We are going to snuggle up and watch TV. I still hope to sneak in some reading.  Authenticity butch Caitlyn Jenner genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer South Park transgender My First Television Set  No, I lost my breasts. Except that I can’t really say that. I can’t easily explain, to someone who barely knows me, that I did lose weight, but they are probably noticing that I had top surgery (in December 2014) and then I went out and bought clothes that fit me. I lost some weight, but mostly I lost my shame. Not all of it, but a healthy chunk. My dentist was the most recent person to ask me “You look great, did you lose weight?” He is a middle-aged straight white guy. He looks like he is in good shape. I imagine he has an easy life, but all I know about him is that he lives in the suburbs and took over the dental practice when his father retired. We mostly discuss my teeth. He is big on flossing. He told me to “keep on doing whatever it is you are doing” and I was tempted to explain just what it is that I’m doing. He was picking up on something, but it eluded him. My transition is only visible if you know what you are looking for. The gracious thing to say is “Thank you, I feel great.” and move on, but I hate when people bring up my weight. His statement implied that I used to look overweight, uncomfortable, unhappy, or unfashionable (true on all counts). He might have meant to pay me a compliment, but instead he fat shamed me. I don’t want it to be all about the weight. For fifty years I put up with all kinds of fat shaming. Most of it from my mother. All of it unsolicited. From the “You’d be so pretty if you lost weight” to “I’m only concerned about your health” to “You’ll never lose weight if you eat so much bread.” Shame is not a good motivator. I didn’t do anything about my weight for years. I didn’t want to diet and I didn’t want to be pretty. I just wanted the problem to go away and for everyone else to shut up about it already. If I look “great”, it is because I lost the weight of all that shame. It took me a long time to realize that weight wasn’t my problem, it was my solution to not wanting to be a girl. It was there for a reason. For me, shame and overeating go together. I’ve come across many “tips for trans men” – mostly young guys giving advice to other young guys. The top three tips are to lose weight and lower your body fat percentage (eliminate curves), work out (to build up your back, chest, and shoulder muscles), and wear mens/boys clothes that fit (don’t wear baggy clothes). These tips did not work for me until I accepted the limitations of my body, got top surgery, and exorcised my shame. Slowly, my envy of other trans bodies has faded. I’m solid instead of lanky. I’m not willing to put in the effort to get lean and buff. I have the body of a short middle-aged transgender butch who goes to the gym intermittently and is not (yet?) on testosterone. I could do better, but I no longer feel compelled to compare my body to everyone else’s. Trans or cis. The pictures that I chose for this post illustrate dangerous (tobacco) and harmless (belly trimming) weight loss regimens from the 1930’s. I am curious whether fifty years from now everything I am doing will look as ridiculous. Notes: This is a good article on fat shaming and fatphobia, from xojane. Although it is not specific to the LGBT community, it is relevant to anyone who has dysphoria. This article, “19 Men Go Shirtless And Share Their Body Image Struggles” should be titled “19 Cisgender Men…” but is otherwise very interesting. Lastly, I found a sweet site on Tumblr called chubbytubbytrans, which needs no further description.  Body Image and Clothing butch Diet fat shaming fatphobia ftm Gender genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer transgender Weight loss You Look Great, Did You Lose Weight?  Usually I break out my flannel shirts right after Labor Day, but it is the middle of September and the weather has not changed. It is still summer in the city. I’m wearing my summer plaid. My summer plaid are Madras. I didn’t plan to have a half-dozen Madras shirts hanging in my closet. I bought them, over the last two years, one at a time, unable to resist the patterns. All summer long, when I didn’t want to wear a T-shirt, but I didn’t want to wear a dress shirt, I threw on a Madras. Then I realized that Madras is as close as you can get to a summer flannel shirt. I love plaid. I don’t understand how my personal style developed; how plaids got into my subconsciousness. If it is a butch thing, or a guy thing. Why plaid instead of stripes or paisley. Why plaid instead of Tattersall or gingham. How my child brain synthesized the idea of masculinity down into a plaid shirt. How I drifted into some sort of Ivy League goes hiking hybrid style. My Madras are classic plaids; not the pastel Easter egg, flashy fluorescent, or psychedelic patchwork plaids. My plaids wouldn’t be out-of-place on flannel. The British brought the Scottish Tartan patterns with them to India, wove them into Madras cloth, and then spread them all over the rest of the British Empire. From India to Bermuda. Madras shorts, pants, jackets, and shirts made the jump to the U.S. in the 1950’s. They have been a preppy staple ever since. I only have the shirts. This article from Gentleman’s Gazette explains everything you might want to know about Madras. I am lucky that authentic Madras shirts are still made. Even if they are not fashionable, they are still classic. They have not gone the way of bell bottoms or cargo pants. They are not a fashion crime, e.g. wearing over the calf tube socks with shorts. I like timeless classic men’s fashion. I would like to wear out my favorites. To go back to a store and replace an object with the exact same item. The reality is slightly different. Lapels change, collars change, colors change, and the cut changes. There are a few classic outfits from each decade that could be worn today, but most outfits look dated. Men’s fashion changes more slowly than women’s, but it does change. A lot of guys don’t change with it. I don’t want to be the middle-aged guy trying too hard to be cool. I don’t want to be the middle-aged guy wearing clothes that were in vogue in 1990. I don’t want to be the middle-aged guy wearing beige and gray. I know I’m at risk. This article from the Daily Mail explains why. Two summers ago, on a humid Saturday morning, I was hanging out at the dog run with Gracie. I looked around and noticed that every other human was wearing either no socks, no-show socks, or really low-cut ankle socks, and that I was wearing Thorlo 1/4 ankle crews. They stuck up about two inches over my New Balance sneakers. Although not as bad a faux pas as tube socks, I realized that while I was not paying attention, everyone else was. My dilemma was to either continue wearing something that was clearly out of style (although in perfectly good condition), or go out and buy a lot of socks. I went to Paragon Sports and bought new socks. The most recent style change that affects me is the slimming down and untucking of casual buttoned shirts. This isn’t new, but it is at critical mass. I’ve always tucked in my shirts and rolled up my sleeves to compensate for being short and having hips. Of my six Madras shirts, only two (custom-made) are short enough (and wide enough at the hips) to wear untucked in public. I will continue to wear the others tucked in, in the classic way, like a clueless middle-aged guy, because I love my plaid. Notes: If you were expecting an update on Donna’s broken ankle, she is in residential rehab at Village Care doing two hours of physical therapy a day. I can walk there in twenty-minutes from our apartment. They allow me to take her out in a wheelchair; we have gone around the corner to eat, and across the street to see a documentary at the Film Forum (Black Panthers: Vanguard of a Revolution). Recovering from a broken ankle is boring, but I’m doing my best to amuse her.  Body Image and Clothing butch fashion faux pas ftm genderqueer lesbian madras shirt middle age non-binary plaid flannel shirt queer transgender Mad About Plaid  I almost made it back to Venice. Donna broke her ankle in two places on Saturday. We won’t be going anywhere anytime soon. I’m angry with her for falling, for rushing, for not watching her step, for being Donna. She was on her way to the swimming hole, and came back to get sunscreen. She missed the step from the porch to the walkway. I didn’t see it happen. I just heard her cry out. I was planning on staying home and writing a post about going back to Venice. Instead, we took a trip to the emergency room. Our first trip abroad together, in 1983, was to Italy. We flew into Rome and took the train to Venice. When we arrived in Venice there was a crowd outside the train station, and the Vaporetto weren’t running. We arrived on the first Sunday in September. In the middle of the Regata Storico. There was nothing to do except look at the boats and wait for the Grand Canal to reopen so we could get to our pensionne. I ate my first gelato. I learned a lot about Donna on that trip. I learned that she loves the unplanned and unexpected, that she likes to change the itinerary, and that she likes to travel without reservations. We were going to stay in Venice for five nights but had such a good time that we ended up staying for ten nights, and skipped Emilia-Romagna (Bologna and Ravenna) before decamping for Tuscany. Donna doesn’t like guidebooks. She hates lists of “10 things You Must Do In …”, even though she’d want to do five or six of them anyway. She thinks of herself as a traveler not a sightseer. She is fond of Romanesque churches and Roman mosaics. She finds them in out-of-the-way places. We go out of our way to visit them. After Venice, we were going to drive through Umbria and Le Marche. If you are in a long-term relationship you probably have a set of meaningful one word phrases you both use. For us, they are Grazalema and Bologna. Grazalema is a village in Cadiz, Spain. It is a “white town” surrounded by the Sierra de Grazalema Natural Park. It doesn’t have a famous church or museum. We stopped for lunch, en route from Arcos de la Frontera to Zahara. We ordered a delicious roast loin of pork, drank a glass of red wine, and sat in the main plaza watching town life. Donna thought Grazalema would make a great base for a couple of days. We could go to Zahara on a day trip. I offered only pro forma resistance. We stayed. Grazalema is our shorthand for discovering a wonderful place by accident. Serendipity. Bologna is my term for giving up unknown future pleasures because Donna changed the itinerary. I wanted to go there because of the food. I will never get there because something better will always crop up and get in the way. I will never be able to make a convincing argument to go there. Bologna is what falls off the list. Even though it is my idea, I’m not convinced that going to Venice is a good idea. Nothing is ever as good the second time around. There is no guarantee that I will fall for its charms. I might be bothered by the crowds of tourists. I might be disappointed. It won’t be exactly how I remember it. Donna insisted that we buy travel insurance. I bought it literally two hours before she fell. If all goes well, we will be reimbursed for our expenses and be able to reschedule the trip in the spring. Meanwhile, we can dream, eat gelato, and read about the back roads of Umbria and Le Marche. Notes: Welcome to Rehab is a riff on Welcome to Holland, written by Emily Perl Kingsley, about parenting a child with Down’s Syndrome. I first came across it while reading Andrew Solomon’s excellent book Far From The Tree (about parenting all sorts of kids including gay and trans kids). Some people love the piece, some people hate it. Some people accept they will never get to Italy, and some people create Italy wherever they are. Donna broke her ankle on Saturday, had surgery on Sunday, and is in residential rehab. She is not in a lot of pain, but she can’t put any weight on the bad ankle. She should come home in a week or two, equipped with a knee scooter.  Authenticity butch far from the tree genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer relationships transgender travel Venice welcome to holland Welcome to Rehab   When I was a child I could not imagine the future. I could not picture myself as an adult. What I might look like, who I would live with, or what I would do. I drew blanks. I knew what I didn’t want to be. I didn’t want to be a girl. I didn’t want to be like my mother. I didn’t want to marry a man and have kids. I didn’t want to be a wife. I didn’t want to be a career woman in a skirt suit. I didn’t want to grow up. I didn’t want to do the long list of things that my mother did to get ready. I didn’t want to bother with pantyhose, lip stick, eye liner, foundation, perfume, hair spray, or nail polish. I didn’t know there were other options. I survived by resisting my mother’s attempts to make me look like or act like a girl. I survived, but I did not thrive. I thought in double-negatives. I didn’t do what I didn’t want to do. This is not the same as doing what you want to do. Whenever possible, I didn’t do the girl stuff. I dragged my feet and resisted. Sometimes I didn’t do anything at all. I stayed in my head or I read. All of my fantasies were about being a boy. I kept the cognitive dissonance to a minimum by not fantasizing about being either a man or a woman. I didn’t want to grow up. I didn’t want to be a blank. Getting comfortable in one’s body is not always easy. I didn’t make a lot of compromises. I didn’t twist myself into a pretzel to make other people comfortable. I figured out what kinds of jobs and workplaces to avoid. I learned that if you are really good at what you do most people will cut you some slack for being eccentric. Others will not be able to get past what you look like, no matter how good you are. Some people don’t like butches. I do not regret being a butch. I regret that I didn’t let the trans out earlier. That I lived for so long in the land of “I am not” instead of in the land of “I am”. My life would have been different if had I been permitted to say what I wanted without fear of reprisal or punishment. I’m no longer afraid, but I still have trouble imagining my future. I want to be free from dysphoria. I want to feel comfortable in my body and in the external world. I’m not there yet. Changing my name and getting top surgery both brought me closer. The next sentences all start pulling back into the “I don’t want” construction; it is a struggle to re-write them. To turn resistance into initiative. To turn “I don’t want to transition into a man.” into “I want to continue my transition at my own pace and in the same direction.” Notes: I’ve stalled out on thinking about testosterone due to the high cholesterol count (282) on my blood test. Right now all I can say is that I want to get my cholesterol down so I can have free choice. And that sometimes I hate being middle-aged and having middle-aged problems.  Authenticity authenticity butch dysphoria ftm Gender genderqueer lgbt non-binary queer transgender Imagining the Future  Fred Astaire and Fred Jr. By coincidence, my dad’s first name was Fred. I don’t dance. I refused to take dance lessons. Modern, ballet, or ballroom. I refused to let my dad teach me to Lindy or Waltz. It was too girly. If I had been allowed to learn how to lead, in pants, I might have done it. If I could have imagined myself as Fred Astaire or Gene Kelly, I might have done it. But I was damned if I was going to pretend I was Ginger Rodgers. It was a short-sighted decision. To dance naturally you have to start young; it has to be in your bones. I never learned to partner dance. I can barely dance solo to rock or disco – I shuffle my feet and flap my arms and try to sway on beat. I didn’t dance until I was in college. I learned on a tiny dance floor in the back of The Saint (Boston). There was a mirrored ball and cigarette smoke. It was too crowded to move. Of all the girly things I refused to do as a child, and there were many, I only regret not learning to dance. I do not regret not learning how to sew, knit, do needlepoint, put on make-up, put together an outfit, walk in heels, flirt, do gymnastics, play jacks, or use a hula-hoop. I’m thankful that I thought swimming, ice skating, and cooking were neutral to masculine activities (life-guard, hockey player, and chef). My parents met at a synagogue dance. I watched them dance at parties and bar mitzvahs. I was always surprised that they danced so well together. Dancing changed them from parents into a couple. They looked like they knew what they were doing. They told me that dancing was an important social skill that every girl should have. I didn’t listen. I didn’t dance in front of the mirror. I sang along with the radio, my feet firmly planted on the floor. I didn’t dream about dancing with boys. I dreamed about being a boy. The first time I danced with Donna was in Ariels (NYC). We’d gone out with a group of women after a meeting. Donna asked me to dance, and I told her I don’t dance. Everyone else was dancing. She pulled me on to the dance floor and told me she was attracted to me. I stepped on her foot. I apologized. For all the things I never learned to do as a girl there is an equal number of things that I never learned to do as a boy. Never got the chance. Never had the nerve. I’m still a caterpillar. Donna periodically complains that I don’t dance. I counter complain that she won’t go out for Chinese food. Donna has taken classes in Balkan dancing, sang with a Balkan choir, studied Romanian, and travelled in Romania, Bulgaria, and Yugoslavia. We go to Balkan dance parties and Gypsy music festivals in the city. Donna dances and I sit on a chair or lean against the wall and listen to the music. The dancers form a line or a circle, hold hands, and swirl across the floor in unison according to an intricate and inscrutable pattern. The first dances are simple, and then they get increasingly obscure and complex. Donna knows the patterns. In theory, I should like Balkan dancing. There are no gender roles. There is no pairing or partners. Everyone is equal. It is a group dance. But all the bars and clubs you can dance in are straight. I feel out of place. Every few years I half-heartedly join Donna for the first dance. The other dances never click. My excuse is that I’m dyslexic and uncoordinated. I have to think about how I’m moving and that throws me off the rhythm.  I could probably learn a few more dances; if I repeated the steps enough they might come more naturally. I would have to be willing to fail. I would have to take classes, and go to weekly dance sessions. I would have to picture myself as Fred Astaire in a gypsy number in a Hollywood musical. I’m not sure the discomfort of learning would be worth the reward of joining in. I’m sure Donna would disagree. Notes: Social dance anxiety affects lots of queer and trans folk, including those who really can dance. This post on Queer Bois and the Gendered Politics of Partner Dancing resonates with me. The New York Gypsy Festival runs from September 18 to October 4, 2015. I’ll be leaning against the wall drinking Turkish beer.    Authenticity balkan music butch dancing Gender genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer shyness transgender Confessions of a Non-Dancer  Frankenstein’s chest. After the drains came out, after the packing and the bandages were unwrapped, after the swelling went down, Dr. Weiss told me that he wanted to do minor revisions. He was unhappy with the dog ears in the center of my chest and with the size of my nipples. He thought my chest could look cleaner and more balanced. He told me to think about it; there is no charge for the revisions, they are in-office procedures, and they can be done at the same time. I decided to wait and see. To let my chest settle in. My nipples are prominent, but in the range for middle age guys. I’m still a little self-conscious of them. The puckering in the middle that Dr. Weiss called “dog ears” is subtle; it doesn’t even show when I wear a close-fitting T-shirt. It is only an issue if I’m naked, or topless. It is purely aesthetic. A hard choice for someone not used to looking carefully in the mirror. When I do look in the mirror I see the scars. Two long scars, one on each side, going from the middle of my chest to under my arms. They are much more noticeable than the puckering or my nipples. The scars are healing well, fading slowly from red to pink. It is hard to imagine that they will ever be invisible. The scars do not bother me at all. I’m adding them to the list of other scars: the one on my thumb from whittling wood (age 11), the one on my leg from climbing a chain link fence after too much beer (age 19), and the one across my “bikini line” from getting a hysterectomy (age 48). Dog ears are common after top surgery. They are little flaps of skin sticking out on the sides, usually under the armpits. They don’t look like dog ears to me. I love Gracie’s ears; her ears are her most precious asset. I like to fluff and play with them. She loves it when I scratch behind her ears. For years my chest was off-limits. My body will never be a conventional looking woman’s body or a conventional looking man’s body. It is the right body for me. My chest is neither a woman’s chest nor a man’s chest. It is both flawed and perfect. It will still be perfect whether I get the revisions or not. I am leaning towards doing both revisions in the same visit. There may come a point in the future, when my scars have faded, when I want to take my shirt off. In my dysphoric youth, I paid as little attention as possible to my body and my clothing. I accepted my unhappiness. If I was clean, if my hair was short, and if my clothes were masculine, that was good enough. That was the best this butch could ask for. There was no point in making an effort to look better; it just highlighted my contradictions. Even if I could have found the perfect clothes, I don’t think I would have enjoyed wearing them. The clothes would have mocked me back. I don’t feel mocked anymore. When I wear clothes that I like, and that fit me, I feel handsome. I can look at my reflection in the mirror and see myself. I no longer just throw on whatever is at hand. I make an effort. There is no transgender standard of beauty. There are only cisnormative standards. I never came close and I never will come close to meeting them. I will always look different. I will always be a little eccentric. I can live with that, even if the rest of the world is still catching up. Notes: The continuing Caitlyn Jenner coverage is making me think a lot about how the media upholds cisnormative beauty standards for transgender people. I don’t blame Caitlyn for this; I have no idea what I would do if I was rich and famous and a Kardashian. I last wrote about my nipples here when I was getting used to my chest, and I wasn’t sure I wanted to go back for revisions. Meanwhile, I read two good posts on transgender beauty, the trapped in the wrong body trope, and passing. The first is Reclaiming the Wronged Body from TransGriot; the second is Laverne Cox’s statement on Caitlyn Jenner and the right to be seen as your true self, from Tumblr.  Body Image and Clothing butch Caitlyn Jenner Dr. Paul Weiss ftm Gender genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer top surgery transgender Top Surgery Revisions: Dog Ears and Nipple Reduction  I ended up being listed as Queer and Genderqueer in Callen-Lorde’s computers (with no preferred pronouns). Callen-Lorde is NYC’s LGBT health clinic. You make an appointment, fill out the forms, talk to a nurse, get your blood drawn, wait two weeks for the results, and if everything is good, you can get a prescription for cross-gender hormones. Normally I’m pretty speedy filling out forms. I’d already put down my sex assigned at birth (F) and the sex on my insurance (F), but I was flummoxed by these two questions:  If the questions were fill-in-the-blanks I would have answered Sexual Orientation: butch (attracted to femme women) and Gender Identity: trans. Instead, I held the pen in the air and just stared at the questions. Confused. Lots of choices, but none of them are mine. Sometimes I say I am gay, but I know Callen-Lorde is asking whether I am attracted to men. I’m not, I just dress like one. I generally don’t use the word lesbian to describe myself, I use butch, but that isn’t on the list. I am definitely not bisexual. I think of myself as queer, but more on the gender side than for my sexuality. I do not identify as straight. I hesitate at checking off “Something Else” because there is no place to write in “butch”. “Decline to Answer” seems cantankerous. I think I should be able to answer this question more easily, but sexuality is quirky. I do what they tell you to do on multiple choice exams (leave blank what you can’t answer and come back to it later if you have time) and I skip to Gender Identity. I figure I can work backwards to Sexual Orientation once I pick out a Gender Identity. The choice is between TransMale/Transman, Genderqueer/Nonconforming, and Something Else. I identify as transmasculine, but not as a transman (or trans man) because it implies identifying as a man, which I don’t do. I fit Genderqueer (although I think non-binary fits better) and I am definitely Nonconforming. But I think of myself as trans. Trans is not on the menu. I pick Genderqueer/Nonconforming for my Gender Identity, and then check off Queer for my Sexual Orientation. It is not exact, but it is consistent. At least I didn’t end up choosing Lesbian and TransMale/Transman. I should have picked Something Else and Something Else, and scribbled in the margins. The internal debate throws me off-balance and makes me doubt myself. The good news is that now I am officially a client. I have a primary care physician, had my basic blood work done, got a referral for a colonoscopy, and had a physical exam. The bad news is that I have high cholesterol (total is 282, LDL is 164). Shyvon, the Nurse Practitioner who examined me, was pleasant and gentle. She did a manual chest exam and a pelvic exam. It was the least unpleasant pelvic exam I’ve ever had, but it still hurt. It left me shaken and unsteady. We talked about my cholesterol while I pretended I was fine. I didn’t re-start the conversation we had at my intake about possibly going on low-dose testosterone. The timing was off. I’ll get another chance. While Shyvon talked to me about changing my diet, my brain was racing ahead. I thought “I’m not going to take a Statin. I don’t want to put Lipitor or any other drugs in my bloodstream.” There is a part of me that feels the same way about testosterone. There is another part of me that recognizes that it is an entirely different situation. Notes: “What the Ruby Rose Obsession Misses About Gender Fluid Lives” by Micah (of Neutrois Nonsense) touches upon the issues of having a gender that is not easily recognized or ticked off on forms. The post “On Sex/Gender Checkboxes” from The Intersex Roadshow discusses the problems of multiple choice forms for sex/gender, and the need for fill-in-the-blank options. Both are good reads if you hate filling out forms.  Butch Or Trans? butch Callen-Lorde ftm genderqueer high cholesterol low dose testosterone non-binary pap smear pelvic exam queer transgender Transition Why I Hate Filling Out Forms  “And so castles made of sand, fall into the sea, eventually.” Jimi Hendrix An old friend of mine has become a hard-line Radfem. Donna asked if we could stop and visit with her on our way from New York to Cape Ann (she lives in the feminist stronghold of Northampton), and she said no. She said a lot more than no. She’d read Gender Hurts by Sheila Jeffreys and agreed with everything in it. I sat on the beach, surfed the internet, and downloaded a copy (see notes below). I wanted to understand what I was up against. If you are unfamiliar with the Radfem perspective, this is my brief summary based on reading the book:  Gender is a caste system constructed by the patriarchy to oppress women. Gender should be abolished. There are only two sexes – men and women. It doesn’t matter how you identify, what hormones you take, and what surgeries you have; there is no escaping your original genitals and chromosomes. Changing your sex (Radfems don’t believe in gender) is an illusion, a delusion, or a fantasy. Trans women are not women; they are men who claim they are women. They are out to destroy feminism and lesbian/women only spaces (by invading them and insisting on their right to be in them). Radfems believe that only “women born women” can know what it feels like or what it means to be a woman. Trans men are women who claim they are men. They have mutilated themselves to gain male privilege. They are unwittingly destroying feminism and lesbian/women only spaces (by leaving the community and taking their partners with them). Radfems do not recognize/use the terms gender binary, cisgender, non-binary, or genderqueer; you are either a Radfem or a dupe/puppet of the patriarchy. They consider the word cisgender to be a slur because they believe that women are by definition “women born women.” Women should choose, as a political act, to be lesbians or remain celibate.  Whew. Radfems are a small (tiny) segment of feminism. I would say fringe, but I know that many mainstream feminists also sit in judgement. They doubt the authenticity of trans women’s lives (without demonizing them) and think that trans men are butch lesbians who drank the Kool Aid. On a really bad day, when I am wracked with self-doubt, those thoughts cross my mind, but then I talk myself out of it. All gender identities are valid, including mine. Some Radfems, called TERFs (Trans Exclusionary Radical Feminists) by people outside their movement, are very angry and can get very ugly about trans women insisting that they are women, and especially at trans women who identify as lesbian. My friend falls into this camp. It is hard for me to reconcile my view of her as my friend with her view of herself as the defender of lesbian sovereignty. Both of us were tomboys, both of us rejected the female gender roles that we were expected to follow, and both of us were lesbians. However, she is increasingly woman identified while I identify as both butch and trans. She recommended that I read Dirt’s blog (which is virulently anti-trans) quoting “Why not change the world instead of changing your body?” I don’t know how to answer this question except to say that I have chosen to do both. I have also changed how I think about sex, gender, language, and identity. I am less rigid, more accepting, and happier because of it. Notes: Normally I believe in supporting writers by buying their work or borrowing it from the library. However, in the spirit of Abbie Hoffman, you can download Gender Hurts here. Please be aware that it is a transphobic screed, but interesting if you want to know what Sheila Jeffreys really thinks. She lets it all out, including lots of half-truths and misrepresentations. Jeffreys’ arguments are bitter and abrasive. It was hard to hold onto my sense of self in the face of all that hate. I’m sad that my friend believes it. I also found three affirmative pieces that I think are worth reading on this issue: first an interview in Trans Advocate with Judith Butler that critiques Radfem theory, second Roz Kaveney’s review of Gender Hurts originally published in the Times Literary Supplement, and third “Erasing transgender women doesn’t erase gender” by Juliana Qian, published in Overland.  Butch Or Trans? butch feminism Gender genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer radfem TERF transgender Surf and TERF  When you need an inspection miracle… Last week I brought my 2006 Subaru Outback in for its annual safety and emissions inspection. Twice. Cars registered in New York City must be inspected within the city limits at a privately owned auto repair shop that is also a licensed Official Inspection Station. Each year it is a struggle to get a new inspection sticker without the repair shop trying to upsell or overcharge me for work that may not be necessary. I always think it would be easier if I were a man. If I were a rich man. I let the Subaru dealer perform all the routine maintenance on the car. The master plan was to bring the car in to the dealer for its 90,000 mile servicing before the 2016 inspection sticker expired. The dealer can’t give me a sticker because they are outside the city limits, but at least they would catch anything that might cause me to fail. I didn’t follow the master plan. I’ve tried eight different inspection stations. There are only two I’ve gone back to; Marty’s always passed my car if I paid for an oil change and wiper blades (regardless of how bad the car was), and Ericson always told me what was wrong with the car and actually fixed it (but they always found something to fix, usually in the $300 to $800 range). Last year, I took the car to Ericson and had them do the struts and change the gas cap (the check engine light kept going on). A few months later, I put new tires on the car, installed a new battery, and replaced the timing belt. This year, I just wanted to pay $37 and get a 2017 inspection sticker. Hoping for a miracle, I tried out a new nearby Official Inspection Station. Before I could close the driver’s door, the mechanic took out his flashlight, waved it at the rear tire, and said “Look at all that rust.”  Then he told me the car needed rotors and new brake pads. He didn’t even go through the motions to put the car up on the lift. He said no shop would pass the car without the repairs. I can’t prove it, but I’m pretty sure that if I were a man he wouldn’t have tried that line. I told him that I’d try my luck someplace else, I wasn’t in the market for rotors. He tried to charge me for a failed inspection. I told him to fuck off. In these moments, I blame my bad luck on being read as female, as a butch in a Subaru, as an easy mark, as someone who doesn’t know what they’re doing. I repeat the mantra of “if I were a man this wouldn’t be happening to me”. It isn’t dysphoria, I’m angry that I’m being treated disrespectfully. I’m also lacking confidence. I don’t remember the last time I replaced the brake pads. The guys at work brag about how they never get conned at inspection. They sound confident. Maybe they are making it up. Maybe they are too embarrassed to tell the truth. Maybe they secretly paid full price for rotors and brakes, whether they needed them or not. I’ll never know. I backed the car out of the shop and drove to Marty’s. On the way, I decided I was going to tell the mechanic that I just wanted a new inspection sticker. That I was going in next month for the 90,000 mile servicing, and that I would take care of anything major at that time. The mechanic on duty wasn’t Marty’s regular easygoing mechanic. It was the guy from Ericson’s. The guy who always finds stuff to fix. He’d lost his lease on his old shop and bought out Marty’s. He remembered me by name and we shook hands. He remembered the struts. He saw the new tires. I squared my shoulders and told him about the imminent 90,000 mile servicing. He told me there was a new Starbucks around the corner, close to the stairs to the High Line, and that I should come back in 30 minutes. When I did, there was a 2017 sticker on my car. He told me the car was good to go, that I probably should get new brake pads, and that he’d see me same time next year. Notes: I grew up with the original cast album of Fiddler On The Roof. Here is Zero Mostel, at the 1971 Tony Awards, singing “If I Were A Rich Man“. Whenever my mother complained about us living in a small apartment without air-conditioning, my father would sing the first verse. There used to be lots of auto body repair shops in Chelsea. One by one they’ve been replaced by apartment buildings, art galleries, and boutiques. The Heavenly Body Shop signage still exists, but the building now houses a Commes De Garcon shop. Marty’s is a couple of blocks away, tucked under the elevated structure of the High Line park.  Authenticity butch car repair DMV dysphoria ftm Gender genderqueer lesbian non-binary Subaru Outback transgender Same Time Next Year  I am happy as a clam. The long form of the expression is “happy as a clam at high tide”. Clams are dug up in shallow water. They are safe in their beds in deep water. The clams I ate at Woodman’s were not very happy. They were deep-fried. If you are from the North Shore of Massachusetts you are probably rolling your eyes because Woodman’s is a tourist trap. Everyone has their favorite clam shack or place to go for lobster in the rough. There are about a dozen places to choose from between Rockport and Ipswich. Woodman’s is a treat for me, and everything I ate there was delicious. Once you get over the prices there is a lot to enjoy ($30 for a humongous plate of fried clams, homemade french fries, and onion rings). Woodman’s is chaotic and confusing if you don’t know how it works. It is huge. It is self-service. There are three stations, each with their own line (one just for whole lobsters, one for drinks (in my case beer), and one for fried clams, fried scallops, fried haddock, french fries, onion rings, lobster rolls, clam fritters, corn, and cole slaw). If you come with less than four people (one for each line and one to grab a table) you have to do some juggling before you can eat. When Woodman’s is busy there is also a line for the restrooms. The restrooms are signed for Buoys and Gulls. It is hokey. On this trip I felt more like a buoy, although I ate like a gull. An adult gull will consume over 20% of its body weight everyday in food. I think I came close to that at Woodman’s. Unlike the gulls, I didn’t  have to go dumpster diving or eat off of someone else’s plate. In the water I felt like a buoy. Or at least I felt buoyant. Bouncy and happy. I brought all of my swimming costume paraphernalia with me. The first day at the beach I wore board shorts that hit just above the knees (commando) and a loose-fitting short sleeve rash guard (bottom loop of shirt tied into the fly lacing of the shorts). I was happy reading on my beach chair, happy walking the length of the beach at low tide, and happy bobbing around and jumping waves. I did not feel self-conscious. I did not mind the extra fabric. I did not mind wearing a shirt. I wasn’t worried about losing my shirt. I didn’t feel that I was hiding anything. I am never going back to wearing a women’s Speedo Racerback. I did notice a handful of other people like me wearing various configurations of trunks and tops. There were also a lot of good-looking guys wearing board shorts and rash guards. They didn’t look self-conscious either. I put on sandals and went directly from the beach to the car to the grocery store without anyone raising an eyebrow at what I was wearing, although I got “Sir’d” more than usual. I am a convert. I enjoyed being back at the beach. The second day I wore shorter trunks and another rash guard, and had a similar experience. I never wore the “bike short” swim bottoms or the swimming tank tops (which I perceive as slightly less masculine). I shouldn’t be surprised that I was most comfortable in the most masculine beach attire that I could find. What did surprise me is that Donna liked it the best too. Win-win. Notes: Woodman’s restrooms are referenced in this (slightly phobic and anti-unisex restroom) article in the Boston Globe on oddball bathroom signs. Go Where? Sex, Gender, and Toilets  has an even wider array of unusual signs to categorize restrooms, including some that are genuinely baffling. This post is a follow-up to my earlier post on genderqueer swim suits, butch bathing suits, and what non-binary people can wear to the beach. You can find it here if you missed it the first time around, including pictures of my swim trunks and rash guard.  Body Image and Clothing bathrooms butch Cape Ann Fried Clams genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer transgender Woodman's Buoys and Gulls  I’m on vacation and I promised Donna and Gracie that I would not post or write while I am away (two or three weeks). However, a blogging friend, Mrs. Fever, invited me to write a guest post on her blog Temperature’s Rising, and I invite you to read the post (link is below) and also to hop around her blog. Before you link, some of Mrs. Fever’s writing is NSFW! It is however, excellent and often hot. So be forewarned. My post is pure vanilla,  and discusses various aspects of my coming out stories. Plural. The link is here. Happy reading, happy July. See you in a few weeks.  Butch Or Trans? butch coming out genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer transgender Greetings from Cape Ann  “Because you know something is happening here, but you don’t know what it is, do you, Mr. Jones?” – Bob Dylan, from The Ballad of a Thin Man The Stonewall Inn, Christopher St. My parents managed to miss the 1960’s. We lived in the city, but we might as well have lived in Podunk. My parents were as conventional as Ward and June Cleaver in Leave It To Beaver, except that they were Jewish and lived in a small apartment. My parents didn’t listen to Bob Dylan or The Rolling Stones. They listened to Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme sing the classic American songbook. They liked the 1950’s, when everyone knew their place and stayed there. They tried to keep up with the Joneses, but they couldn’t afford to. Once a year my parents took me and my brother to the Washington Square Outdoor Art Exhibit. We gawked at the hippies, listened to the folk singers, looked at the paintings, kept an eye out for the homosexuals, and had Italian Ices. I wasn’t told much about homosexuals (as my parents referred to them) except that they lived in “The Village”, and did things that were illegal and unnatural. Any man who didn’t get married was suspect, including my mother’s cousin, who didn’t get married until he was in his late thirties. He remained suspect. There were men on TV who wore dresses as a joke. My parents loved Milton Berle and Flip Wilson. Cross-dressing was hilarious, as long as it was clear that it was a man in a dress. A daughter who insisted on dressing like her brother was not funny. I vaguely knew about Christine Jorgensen; the most famous transsexual in the U.S.  I read about Renee Richards when she came out in 1976. It didn’t occur to me that someone could transition the other way. I live a short walk from The Stonewall Inn. Christmas decorations go up the day after Halloween; rainbow flags go up in our neighborhood right after Memorial Day. Thousands of rainbow flags, large and small, hanging in store windows, fluttering off fire escapes. No trans flags in sight. I came out a few years before the rainbow flag was created. Then, the symbols of the movement were λ, the pink triangle, the intertwined double women’s symbol or double men’s symbol, and the labrys. Rainbow flags didn’t become ubiquitous in New York until the early 1990’s. Along with other members of ACT UP (the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power), I derided the rainbow flag as a “gay happy face” and carried the SILENCE = DEATH banner in gay pride marches. For many years there was not a lot to celebrate. On Friday, the Supreme Court ruled 5 to 4 that marriage between two men or two women is a constitutional right in all states. It is a good ruling, and I’m glad that it is the law. The dissenting opinions are chilling. There is still a lot of hate. There is still a lot of resistance. There are still four justices living in the past, unable to accept what is happening all around them. The day of the ruling was also the 11th Trans Day of Action. This event takes place on the Christopher St. Pier, and is organized by the Audre Lorde Project and the Sylvia Rivera Law Project. The Trans Day of Action honors all trans lives, including those usually left behind by respectability politics: sex workers, homeless people, prisoners, and undocumented immigrants. Speakers shared their stories of being harassed by the police, and attacked and disrespected on the street. There were over a thousand Trans and Gender Non-Conforming people on the march. Donna came with me. We marched for a while and then stepped out of the street to watch everyone go by. The crowd chanted “Fuck your assimilation, all we want is liberation.” A man waiting for the bus asked us if this was part of the Marriage Equality celebration, and we told him no, that is was part of the Trans Day of Action. He took a long look at us, and looked at the march, and looked at his watch, and hailed a taxi back to the relative safety of the Upper East Side. Notes: Gilbert Baker created the original rainbow flag in 1978 in San Francisco; it was recently acquired by MoMA (The Museum of Modern Art). Renee Richards became famous when she was barred from playing professional women’s tennis; she sued the United States Tennis Association and won. The Ballad of a Thin Man is my second favorite Dylan song (LIke a Rolling Stone is #1). You can listen to it here. I sing that line to my dog, Gracie, when she gives me that confused puppy look. You don’t want to hear my version.  Authenticity ACT UP butch ftm genderqueer lesbian lgbt marriage equality non-binary queer rainbow flag trans day of action transgender Mr. Jones  The Gender Unicorn, graphic by Landyn Pan Virginia Prince popularized the phrase “Sex is what is in-between your legs, and gender is what is in-between your ears.” She separated sex and gender into two social constructs: one biological and one psychological. This concept is also used in The Gender Unicorn infographic, which adds gender expression, and romantic/sexual attractions into the mix. The unicorn allows for infinite possibilities, including a continuum titled Other.  How do you measure otherness? My gender identity has been clear to me since I had the vocabulary for boy and girl, and the concept of self (I am). I am a boy. I also got the social construct of gender expression pretty quickly because I kept trying to do it my way instead of their way. I never understood biological sex, and it still perplexes me. The pre-puberty loop used to run something like this: I am a boy, I don’t feel like a girl, I don’t want to do girl stuff, I want to wear boy’s clothes and look like a boy. It goes from straight from gender identity to gender expression, and avoids the issue of biological sex. I don’t remember thinking that I wanted a boy’s penis. I don’t know if that is because I knew I didn’t have it and couldn’t get one, or because it seemed besides the point. Who needs that stuff to be a boy? Sex (biological or assigned at birth) is a confusing mess of gonadal hormones, the endocrine system, chromosomes, gametes, internal reproductive organs, and genitalia. It courses through my veins. Legal sex is stamped on all my documents. I did not understand why people kept telling me “because you’re a girl” when it was clear to me that I wasn’t really a girl. I knew that I was the only child who felt they were on the wrong line every morning in the school yard. Puberty complicated things. The rush of hormones created more visual cues and they were hard to camouflage. I didn’t want hips, body fat, breasts, or body hair. All that estrogen did not change the loop. It was harder to look like a boy, but I gave it my best shot. In addition to not thinking about my body, I didn’t think about the crushes I had on women, or about sex. I am both butch and transgender, and my gender expression is a mix of clothing, hair, shoes, comportment, speech, posture, tone, and affect. It is a mixed up version based on thousands of messages and cues I have rejected, intercepted, and partially digested for presenting as white, middle-class, Jewish, female, male, queer, or a pacifist. It is intentional, unconscious, ridiculous, and authentic. Top surgery boosted my gender expression. I’m not sure where testosterone fits into this, which is the reason I’m still prevaricating. I don’t want to change how I feel inside. I’m not sure I want it pumping through my brain and rewiring my nervous system, the medical equivalent of Taz on a mission. I’m not ready to poke and prod the primeval beast. Notes: I started thinking about gender identity versus gender expression when I was reading an article (which I can’t find) on why it is OK to not match your gender identity with your gender expression (e.g. non-binary identity with masculine gender expression). While searching for that article, I found these two instead: Gender Expression Is Not Gender Identity and Body Dysphoria and Gender-LEGOs.  Body Image and Clothing butch gender expression Gender identity genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer top surgery transgender Gender Identity, Gender Expression, and Biological Sex  Joey Chestnut set a world record in 2013 by eating 69 hot dogs (and buns) in 10 minutes at Nathan’s Hot Dog Eating Contest. I went out to a middle-eastern restaurant for lunch with a friend who recently started on testosterone. He chowed down. A shawarma wrap, spinach pie, french fries, and a Coke. He told me that he can’t stop eating. He can’t satisfy his hunger. I ordered the salad combination platter with two pieces of falafel and a seltzer. Not exactly manly. I knew if I got hungry later I could always eat an apple. I carry one in my pack. Four years ago, when everything was still suppressed, I ate anything and everything without thinking about the calories or the Weight Watchers points. WIthout wondering if I was hungry; without stopping when I was full. I ignored or denied the connections between what I ate and how much I weighed, as if they were independent events. I ate whatever looked good or was put in front of me. I was always game for a meal or a snack. I never turned food down. I finished everything on my plate. The guys I work with eat epic lunches. Overstuffed sandwiches. French fries, onion rings, pickles and coleslaw. They would not dare to order a salad with grilled chicken, dressing on the side. At least not in front of anyone else. When they finish they rub their beer bellies and contemplate dessert. They complain that they can’t eat as much as they did when they started out on the job. I used to eat like that. I never followed the diets my mother tried to put me on. I didn’t want to be dainty or pretty. If I had to eat like a bird I was going to eat like a vulture. In my gender befuddled mind, diets are for women. Trying to fit into a particular size is for women. For years I had no idea how much I weighed or what size I wore in women’s clothing; I only knew my ever-expanding waist size in Levi’s. I topped out at a 40 inch waist and a 28 inch inseam. I think I was around 190 lbs. Eventually my weight leveled out at 175 lbs., which was easy to maintain without paying any attention to my diet. I was just another overweight butch lesbian. I didn’t like being fat, but it was better than being feminine. I took pride in my exuberant appetite. I ate like a man. The paradox of coming out as transmasculine is that I now take an active interest in what I look like. When I think of myself as a boy, I see myself as solid and handsome. Not chubby. Not dowdy. The girl fat had to go. It has been three years since I started with Weight Watchers. I’ve been able to get my weight down to 140 lbs. and to keep it there. I eat healthy; lots of fruits and vegetables, yogurt, whole grains, beans, and fish. I don’t deprive myself. I don’t suffer. I don’t feel like I am dieting, but I do miss the abundance and spontaneity of impulse and extreme eating. I miss eating french fries, fried calamari, babka, ice cream, brownies, and bagels. I’m willing to give them up to keep my weight down. I have a hard time eating those foods in moderation. It doesn’t feel good to overeat anymore. I try to find room to eat pizza and falafel and dark chocolate. I’ve learned how to nurse a pint instead of a pitcher of beer. I miss eating mindlessly but I don’t want to go back to eating like Joey Chestnut. I’m reconciling my gender with my appetite. I’ve got a full plate, but it isn’t piled up with food. Notes: Even at my peak I couldn’t win an amateur eating contest. Joey Chestnut is a world champion speed eater. You can read about his exploits here. Besides going to Weight Watchers, I tamed my random eating habits by following the advice in Mindless Eating by Brian Wansink, a professor at Cornell University and director of its Food and Brands Lab. His research on portion size and plate size helped me rethink dinner.  Body Image and Clothing butch dieting ftm Gender genderqueer lesbian mindless eating Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest non-binary queer transgender Weight Watchers Eating like a Man  I just came back from the 2015 Philadelphia Trans-Heatlh Conference. I’d gone there once before, in 2012, when I didn’t know what to do except that I needed to do something. I had a funny feeling that I didn’t want to transition directly to Male with a capital M. In 2012 I was a lurker. I hadn’t changed my name. I hadn’t started to blog, I didn’t know any trans men, and I didn’t know anyone at the conference. I day-tripped from New York so I could go to a workshop on non-binary transition (given by Micah of Neutrois Nonsense). I didn’t talk to anyone, I just gawked. I didn’t feel like I belonged. I felt like a wanna be. Except that I wasn’t sure what I wanted to be. I was envious of the middle-aged guys who transitioned ten years ago.  I was envious of the guys who high-fived their long-lost friends and seemed to know everyone at the conference. I went home from the 2012 conference thinking that I wasn’t going to transition, I was just going to do a few things to make myself feel more comfortable. I decided  to start by legally changing my name. It would have made more sense to start by reducing my social isolation, but the conference proved that I wasn’t ready for that. I kept reading. I started my blog. It took a year and a half for me to make it to the transmasculine support group at the LGBT Center. Through that group, I now know a bunch of guys in various stages of transition and they know me. A dozen of us were there for the 2015 conference. It made a huge difference in how comfortable I felt being there. There were thousands of short guys and tall gals and people who I assumed were transitioning but I couldn’t tell for sure which direction they were going in. I talked to a couple of trans guys who were in their first year of transition and a handful of non-binary and/or genderqueer folk. This time I could see that there were a lot of people in flux, trying to figure out where they fit in. This time I let myself feel welcome. I went with my usual questions but mostly I listened. The two workshops that resonated were on starting transition over the age of forty, and exploring aging issues in trans male communities. I learned that testosterone dosing should be lower than the standard protocol if you are in menopause, and that it helps with hot flashes/night sweats. I also heard a lot from guys who had been on testosterone for ten or fifteen years and needed to go on low dose or stop taking it because of health issues (sleep apnea, diabetes, and high cholesterol). They said you have to listen to your body and be open to changing your dosing regimen once you have achieved your desired goals. I joined a Facebook group for trans guys over 40 moderated by one of the panelists. The workshops also discussed why you need social networks and peer support. The highlight of my trip was running into other bloggers and readers. I met Kameron (janitorqueer) and their partner, and I had  lunch with Shawn (Dawn to Don). I missed meeting a few other people I’d hoped to find. Next time I’ll make a plan. The contact made me feel real. What I took away from the conference is that I still need to work on my social isolation. I need to find a primary care physician regardless of whether I take hormones and I need to learn how to listen to my body. I need to stop apologizing for identifying as both butch and transgender. I need to stop apologizing for not having it all figured out.  Authenticity aging butch genderqueer low dose testosterone non-binary Philadelphia Trans-Health Conference queer social isolation testosterone transgender Transition Greetings from the Philadelphia Trans-Health Conference  The Bearded Lady is 4th from the left. Last week I posted part of my internal dialogue on low dose testosterone. This week I continue the argument. I also learned two new terms: “androgenic alopecia” which is the medical term for male-pattern baldness, and “hypertrichoisis” which is short for abnormal hair growth on the body. You say you are in the middle, but you are actually just at the far end of female. To get to the real middle you need to take testosterone. I know where I am. I don’t need to take testosterone to feel like I’m in the middle. I get read either way until I speak. Strangers resist seeing the middle. It confuses them. They want to pigeonhole me back into something they understand: butch lesbian. A Jamie on a low dose of testosterone could look just as confusing as a Jamie on no dose, except for maybe a lower voice. There is no “real middle” in-between the two social constructs of female and male; there is only a place that I call the middle. I’m not sure why I don’t call it genderqueer. I’m not sure why I don’t call it non-binary. The part of the middle I am comfortable in is the masculine middle, not the feminine middle. I am not fluid. I don’t have days where I feel female or want to be read as female. I’m in the middle, but it is the boy/man middle. I’m not sure how much deeper into the middle I can go. I’m not sure that testosterone will take me into the middle instead of directly to male. You only want to take testosterone to fit in. You want to be able to say that you are on testosterone so that people will take you seriously. I’m embarrassed that there is some truth in this statement. I’ve never felt like I fit in anywhere and mostly I’m OK with that. I didn’t fit in as a girl. I didn’t fit in as a butch lesbian. I’m used to being an outsider. I’m used to being a couple of standard deviations away from the average. I have a flicker of shame that I am not on testosterone. That anything short of a binary transition on testosterone is lame. That even if I believe I am “trans enough”, I don’t believe I am visibly masculine enough. I know I don’t have to prove anything to anyone, but I wish I looked more masculine. Low dose testosterone might make me look slightly more masculine, but is not going to help me fit in anymore than finding the perfect pair of sneakers will help me fit in. The question I should be asking is will testosterone make me feel more comfortable in my own skin? The only way to answer that is to experiment with it. You don’t know what you want to look like or sound like, except that you are never happy where you are. You are thinking about taking testosterone because you don’t know what else to do. It is my condition to be vaguely dissatisfied with how I look, and to be critical of my gender expression. I distort what I see in the mirror, or at least I hope what I see is not what everyone else sees. If I take testosterone, and I still feel awkward and uncomfortable, then I will have exhausted all the transition avenues open to me. If I put off taking testosterone then I can still hope that testosterone will put me at ease.  I’m afraid that neither hormones nor drugs can quiet my restlessness. My mother never let me forget that there was something wrong with me because I was not like the other girls. She berated me. She nitpicked. She criticized. She told me I was a freak. She was a nasty piece of work right up until she died. It is easy to say that she was wrong; it is hard to exorcise her voice from my head. It is hard to suspend self-judgment. It is hard to use a kind tone of voice with myself, to not see myself through her eyes. I’m afraid that tuning her out is a never-ending project. I will have to do it over and over again, for the rest of my life. Kind of like going on testosterone. Notes: I haven’t found anything interesting in the scientific literature on low dose testosterone for genderqueer or non-binary people. I did find three useful documents on hormone therapy: the 2014 Protocols for Cross-Gender Hormone Therapy from the Callen-Lorde Community Health Center in New York, this technical paper from the Endocrine Society on starting hormone therapy with transgender patients (which is the basis for WPATH’s Standards of Care), and this article from the American Society for Reproductive Medicine on testosterone therapy and menopause.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity butch ftm genderqueer lesbian low dose testosterone non-binary queer transgender Transition The Rest of the Testosterone Circus in My Head  Testosterone. I talk myself into and out of taking it about once a week. I’m intrigued, but skeptical. Back when I thought the choice was to stay butch or transition to male, I decided not to start it. Then I realized that was a false choice. That regardless of how I identified, I could do whatever I needed to do to feel whole and authentic. Nothing was off the table. Testosterone. I flinch when I write the word. I forget that I create my own testosterone. Everyone creates natural estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone, but in radically different proportions. I have no idea what my hormone levels are, but I know testosterone is in the mix. Do I want more? I taunt myself with the question “If you are really transgender, then why are you so hesitant about increasing your testosterone level?” This is a rephrasing of “If you were really transgender you’d be taking hormones.” I can debunk that. Testosterone, as we know it, has only been available since the late 1930’s. Transgender people existed before synthetic hormones existed. There are people who can’t get access to hormones (money, gatekeepers, availability), and people who have medical contraindications. And people who choose not to take hormones. They are all still trans. Taking hormones doesn’t make you transgender. Surgery doesn’t make you transgender. Your choice of pronouns doesn’t make you transgender. I don’t identify with the sex I was assigned at birth. That is what makes me trans. That is what I would tell my seventeen year old self. If they would listen. I tell myself that “taking hormones is extreme” and that my dysphoria isn’t “severe enough” to justify it. I remind myself that it is only considered extreme to take hormones when you do it to join the other team. Extreme the way top surgery requires a psychological assessment while breast reduction does not. Taking hormones is not extreme if you are cisgender (i.e. not transgender). According to the CDC (Center for Disease Control), 10.6 million American women are on the pill; most take a combination of estrogen and progestin. Millions of women in menopause are on HRT (estrogen), despite the identified health risks, because it helps with hot flashes, night sweats, vaginal dryness, and osteoporosis. And they believe it makes them look younger. There is a whole industry of low dose T clinics ready to cater to men who want to increase their virility and energy. Getting access to hormones in the USA is a snap, as long as you are cisgender and have either insurance or money. You don’t have to have dysphoria to take hormones. You have to believe that the effects of the hormones will make you look and feel more like yourself. You shouldn’t take testosterone for cosmetic purposes, or to tweak how you look/sound. You shouldn’t take a low dose just so you can say you are on T. I would take testosterone because I want to lower my voice and square my face and body. To blur the lines. I’ve reached the practical limit of what I can do with diet, gym, top surgery, hair cut, and clothing. I’m not sure it is enough. What I’ve done so far isn’t cosmetic and it isn’t superficial. Whatever I do in the future won’t be either. It might be subtle. Or not. It isn’t a reversible decision. Changes to your voice and body/head hair are permanent, even if you stop. No big decision in life is completely reversible. All decisions have consequences, including doing nothing. You can’t travel back in time and put things back the way they were. What changes do I want to make in my life, and do any of them have anything to do with being on testosterone? If I could answer this question I could quit therapy. Notes: Synthetic hormones are a recent discovery. Scientific American ran an article in 1995 on the discovery of testosterone (the history is correct but the article is a little dated), and PBS has a similar article on the history of the pill. I’m planning to go to the Philadelphia Trans Health Conference for two days (Thursday and Friday). It might help me think this through. I meant to go last year, but I had jet lag and a bad case of the blues. I hope to see some of you there.    Butch Or Trans? authenticity butch ftm genderqueer hormones lesbian low dose testosterone non-binary transgender Transition No Dose Testosterone  Getty_Images  It is hard to lasso Androgel. Donna caught me by surprise. She said “Stop saying that you’re not taking testosterone because I’m against it. I don’t want to be in that position anymore. Make up your own mind. Do whatever you want.” It would be nice if Donna had said this lovingly, with the caveat that she will support me whole heartedly. That I will always be her Jamie no matter what path I take. Whether I am butch or trans. That I should do whatever I think is best for me. But that wasn’t exactly what she meant. In January Donna had open heart surgery to replace a heart valve. The outcome, according to all her doctors, is excellent. The valve took, she didn’t get an infection, her heart is pumping properly, her heart rhythm is good, she doesn’t have atrial fibrillation.  She was taking three medications for her heart: a beta blocker, an ARB (angiotensin receptive blocker), and a blood thinner (warfarin). Both of us hate taking drugs. Drugs have side effects, rules about when and how to take them, and dietary restrictions. She’s got a perpetually runny nose, a sensitive digestive system, and trouble sleeping. She wants her old life back. Carefree. Donna’s cardiologist gave her the go ahead to start cardio rehab (increasingly difficult aerobics while wearing a heart monitor). She felt stronger and more like herself. One Saturday in April we went to the Egon Schiele show at the Neue Galerie, ate a late lunch at the museum’s cafe, took a meandering walk across Central Park, and went to see the movie Clouds of Sils Maria. The next day she decided to go off the beta blocker. She didn’t discuss it with me. She told me she was going to do it. She told her cardiologist she didn’t like the side effects of the beta blocker and wanted to see how she felt going off the drug. He offered to give her a different beta blocker, with potentially different side effects, but she wouldn’t budge. I lost it outside his office. On Madison Avenue. I jumped up and down on the sidewalk and told her she was just like a schizophrenic who insists on going off their medication because they feel good. That the reason she felt good was because the medication was working. I was furious at her for going off the drug before she completed cardio rehab. I begged her to try changing to a different drug to see if the side effects were more manageable. She said no, she wanted to do it her way. We took the subway home. I believed we had an unspoken agreement that we were in this together. Donna believed she was autonomous. Within a week Donna felt weak and unable to do anything that required exertion. She dropped out of cardio rehab. I couldn’t find my empathy. I felt helpless. Scared. Angry. I told her it wasn’t fair. That I had discussed every decision about my transition with her. I waited to change my name. I waited for top surgery, I stopped thinking, or at least talking, about testosterone. She looked at me and said all that was true. I had talked it through. I had waited. She said she couldn’t do what she had asked me to do. She didn’t want to go through the pro’s and con’s with me. She didn’t want to take my feelings into account. She apologized. Another week went by. She talked to her cardiologist and decided to try a different beta-blocker. She said she’d discuss it with me, but make her own decisions. A week later she was feeling good enough to go back to cardio rehab. Her cardiologist told her she could get off the warfarin. She is eating kale, mangoes, and avocados again. She told me to do whatever I want. Not to wait for her consent. The rules have changed. I’m still on the fence about testosterone. But this time it is my fence. Notes: Mo Weinert wrote the series “I Was a Teenage Unicorn” for Original Plumbing, which you can find here. It is part of a series of posts about Mo’s decisions to get on, and then off, low dose testosterone. janitorqueer and Neutrois Nonsense also have a series of posts about their experiences on low dose testosterone. Not surprisingly, all three have different expectations and experiences with low dose T.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity butch genderqueer lesbian non-binary open heart surgery queer relationships testosterone transgender Transition true love Sitting on the Fence  Top surgery. The big reveal. Frankenstein’s monster, 1931. The thermometer hit 80ºF (27ºC) in New York this week. It is T-shirt season. This is the first week I’ve been out in public wearing just one thin clingy layer. Me, my nipples, and my dog. I like the contour of my chest in a T-shirt. I like the definition; clavicle, sternum, pecs, and nipples. It looks like a male chest attached to a short and not-quite-so male torso. Last summer I wore a heavy T-shirt over my binder. I didn’t want the binder’s outline to show. I have not figured out how I want my T-shirts to fit. I’m not sure what is too tight around the chest, what is too loose, what is just right. Where the sleeve should hit my bicep. How the bottom should hug my waist. After years of being overweight, I lean towards loose. I’ve bought and/or returned a dozen different T-shirts. The one thing they have in common is you can see my nipple bumps. I’ve kept a boy’s XL from Lands End, a men’s S from Uniqlo, and a men’s M from Bonobos. My nipples are prominent. My shirts feel oddly transparent. Prior to top surgery my nipples were invisible; smoothed over by sports bras and binders. Women’s nipples are supposed to stay hidden. The last time it was fashionable for women to poke through a sweater was in the 1950’s, when bullet bras were popular. Even now, magazines routinely airbrush out all evidence of nipples. Even on male models. When I go out walking I discretely eye men in T-shirts to see whether their nipples show. I’m not cruising. I used to work with a guy who never looked women in the eye; he only looked at the headlamps. I’m afraid of turning into him. I’ve confirmed that it is common for a man’s nipples to protrude. It is less noticeable when the T-shirt is loose, has graphics or stripes, or is a dark color. Nipples are more visible on guys who are husky, out of shape, and middle-aged, but some young rail thin guys sport them. Nipples are normal. My surgeon, Dr. Weiss, asked me, at one of my follow-up appointments, how I felt about my chest. Overall, I’m very happy with it, even though my scars look like they belong on Frankenstein’s monster. There is still a small pucker around the incision on the left side. Dr. Weiss noticed it after the bandages came off and was waiting to see whether it settled in. He will fix it in the office, without charge, after the summer is over. The other lumps and bumps disappeared. No dog ears on the sides. He asked me if I was OK with my nipples. Dr. Weiss does double incision top surgery with pedicle preservation. Instead of doing a nipple graft, he leaves the areolae and nipples attached to the stem but reduces the size of the areolae. Compared to a standard male chest, my areolae are a little large (roughly the size of a Quarter coin), and my nipples are proportionately big and perky. Despite their size, the placement is good and they look like they belong there. They are familiar. I don’t need to reduce, move, or adjust them; someone else might feel differently. My nipples don’t have to be perfect. I’m glad I had top surgery. I like the way I look in a T-shirt, even with the bumps. I might try going one size smaller next time I’m shopping. I’m reclaiming my right to present as masculinely as I want to. I’m down to one layer, and at least to me, my chest looks great. Notes: For models without nipples, here is an article from New York Magazine on how Rolling Stone Magazine edits and alters cover photos. And when you just can’t stand to look at one more airbrushed model, and you want to see what real butch, femme, queer, transgender, and/or non-binary people look like (and which catch phrase they use for themselves) you can look at this gallery of photos from The Identity Project (photographed by Sarah Deragon).  And at Meg Allen’s BUTCH gallery, or buy a copy of Wendi Kali’s book The Butch/Femme Photo Project.  Body Image and Clothing butch Dr. Paul Weiss ftm genderqueer lesbian nipples non-binary queer top surgery trans* transgender The Nipple Edition  My name is Jamie and my pronouns are they/them. This sentence does not come out of my mouth easily. I get flustered when I’m asked which pronouns I use. I don’t like being referred to as she/her. I never have and I never will. In the past two years I’ve made some half-assed attempts to request they/them pronouns, but then I backed off. I never interrupted the conversation to tell someone they made a mistake. This week I have to get over it. Superman had a mental block against Kryptonite. I’ve got a mental block against changing my pronouns. They/them still sounds forced and artificial to me, but it goes with Jamie. Both are neutral, both simultaneously raise and answer questions. Both are chosen by me, not given to me at birth. Maybe I forgot how hard it was to change my name, but shifting pronouns seems harder. I regularly attend a transmasculine support group at The Center. Each meeting starts with a go round of names and PGPs (preferred gender pronouns). The assumption is that everyone knows what they want to go by. Most use he/him, some use they/them, and no one admits they use she/her. Augie says “My name is Augie and my pronouns are Augie.” I’m stuck in a rut saying that I’m Jamie and I am pronoun challenged. I don’t want to go through the rest of my life cringing at my pronouns or saying that it doesn’t matter when it actually does. It is increasingly disempowering for me to say I’m trans and then be referred to as “she”. This week I have an opportunity to introduce myself to a new group, and to reclaim they/them pronouns. Alexis and I will be giving a short presentation on organizing actions to the “big LGBT group with no name yet” that just formed in NYC to resist Trump. I’m going to try to make it clear at the meeting that I use they/them pronouns, and I’m going to try to stick with it, at least in LGBT circles. I know a few people who actively use they/them pronouns in all aspects of their lives. All them are under 40. All of them complain about the difficulty of getting friends, co-workers, and family to use they/them consistently. I don’t know anyone over 50 who uses they/them. I feel faintly ridiculous doing this, but not ridiculous enough to keep putting it off. I’m not looking forward to discussing grammar, special snowflakes, or whether non-binary identities are for real. I’m not looking forward to discussing whether it is cisgender privilege to use they/them instead of he/him. I am embarrassed that one of the impetuses for changing my pronouns is that I invited the guys from my transmasculine support group to the “big LGBT group with no name yet”. I’m expecting a few of them to show up. I invited them because I don’t want the new group to be the usual mix of lots of gay men and a handful of lesbians. I don’t want the T in LGBT to be silent. I also don’t want to be misgendered in front of my trans friends. At the intersection of my queer political circle and my transmasculine circle I want to be a third person singular they. The start of the Trump/Pence apocalypse is an odd time to choose for splitting hairs over pronouns, but I’m not going to spend the next four years fighting for our lives while being referred to as “she” or while downplaying my gender identity. If I’m in it for the long haul, I’m in it as me. Notes: I wish I was as eloquent and as forceful as Jack Monroe is in this post from their blog “Cooking On A Bootstrap“. In it Jack comes out as non-binary and challenges everyone to use the third person singular they when writing about them. There are still naysayers who state that “they” is ungrammatical. For the grammarians out there, this is my favorite Trump grammar meme:   Butch Or Trans? activism butch Gender genderqueer grammar lgbt non-binary pronouns queer third person singular they transgender The Middle Aged They  Dear Rachel, Thanks for contacting me about being a peer mentor for the Trans* Docu-Series based on the 21 Day Myth. I’ve attached my contact information and a current photo for your casting manager. I’m also posting the casting call on my blog. I took the liberty of web-searching your company to get more information on the project. I was surprised to see that some of the other episodes in the 21 Day Myth series consist of Move Into a Tiny House, Is Your Sex Life Too Vanilla, and Do You Want to Look Like Barbie. I also read up on the 21 Day Myth, a theory erroneously based on “Psycho-cybernetics” published by Dr. Maxwell Maltz in 1960. Dr. Maltz states that it takes 21 days to get used to a change, e.g. moving into a new apartment or adjusting to plastic surgery results. This somehow morphed out of control into 21 days to adopt a new habit or make a major change in your life. It took me about three weeks to get used to myself in my new eyeglasses. Transitioning is not something anyone should do lightly or under time pressure. Each person needs to determine their own timeline for transition, without a gatekeeper making them prove that they deserve access to services, hormones, or surgery. My trans journey is a set at a slow pace. From the moment that I told my therapist “I’m not a girl” it took me six months to take my next step and choose my name. I waited another six months before I asked my partner, my friends, and my co-workers to use my real (and legal) name. I don’t think I’ve made any trans decisions in a 21 day window, and wouldn’t encourage anyone else to do anything before they were ready. I think it is important to have accurate and diverse examples of trans-masculine people in the media. I hope your project will treat the participating individuals with respect and not sensationalize their stories. Looking forward to hearing back from you, Jamie Rachel’s original email to me, including the casting call, is in the Notes section. I don’t expect that I will be cast as a mentor in this show, although I think I would be a good peer listener. I’m not a stereotypical trans man. I’m not sure I’m “trans enough” for their purposes. I can’t even make a firm decision about the path of my own transition or pick a label for myself. I’m not photogenic. I’m just a middle-aged, middle-class, butch, transgender, blogging fool. I received Rachel’s email the day after I watched the Bruce Jenner interview. For a media circus event I thought the program was respectful, touching, and remarkably boring. I did think about what I would say if I was in Bruce’s place, but I’m not in Bruce’s place. I’m in Jamie’s place, and this is where I get to tell my story (to 16.9 million fewer people). Notes: This is a good debunking of the 21 Day Myth from The Health Behaviour Research Centre at UCL (University College London). Below is the letter I received from Rachel, and the casting call:  Hi Jamie,   My name is Rachel and I am a casting associate with Magilla Entertainment, a New York-based television production company that specializes in non scripted programming. I came across your blog from T-Central, and wanted to tell you about a new project we are working on. Currently we are developing a new documentary series that aims to follow the journeys of different people, changing their lives in different ways. One episode in particular will follow the stories of trans individuals who are struggling at a point in their transition, whether it is coming out of the closet, to beginning HRT, or even contemplating SRS. We would like to pair these individuals up with a mentor who can help them through this period of time in their life, and follow as they embark on their new journey. I was wondering if you would be interested in becoming a coach, and also if you would be able to post our casting call (copied below), looking for potential participants, on your blog. Please give me a call if you have any questions or concerns! ARE YOU STRUGGLING WITH YOUR GENDER IDENTITY? Are you struggling with who you are? Do you feel like you were born into the wrong body? Are you living life as the opposite gender you were given at birth? Magilla Entertainment and a major cable network are now casting men and women who identify as the opposite gender and who are considering going through a transition for a new docu-series. If you have been struggling with your gender identity and want the support of a coach or mentor as you transition, we want to hear your story. Following the “21 Day Myth” in which people can mentally and physically make changes after this specific time period, this docu-series will capture the excitement and fears of transgender individuals as they work with a mentor over 21 days to make life changing decisions and become who they truly are. If you think you are ready to embark on this journey, please contact us ASAP at castingdirector@magilla.tv with your name, age, location, occupation, contact phone number, a recent photo and a few sentences about yourself.   — Best, Rachel Finkelstein Casting/Development  42 Broadway | New York, NY 10004 O: 212.727.2420 ext. 330 | D: 646.432.1330  www.magilla.tv         Butch Or Trans? 21 Day Myth Bruce Jenner butch ftm genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary queer reality television transgender Transition My Letter to the Casting Director  The Beatles in Miami, 1964. Photo by Charles Trainor. It has been almost two years since I went swimming. It is a shame. I love the beach and I love swimming in the ocean. I stopped going to the beach because wearing a women’s swimsuit hit the perfect trifecta of dysphoria, negative body image, and self-consciousness. My Speedo made me look like I had breasts (or more accurately, I could not ignore my breasts when I wore it). My Speedo displayed my hairy armpits and a tract of dark hair running from my crotch to my big toe. I wore a T-shirt and shorts over my swimsuit except when I was in the water. I was envious of the guys. Gangly teenagers in baggy knee-length board shorts. Collegiate life guards with ripped abs and a full body tan. Pale dads with beer bellies rolling over the edge of their trunks. There was not a woman on the beach whom I wanted to look like. Not even the other butch lesbians. I don’t want to look like a woman. I look a little less like one now than I did three years ago, but I’m not sure what I actually look like. I’m not sure what I want to look like; how much further I want to go, what I’m willing to do to get there. Currently, I have (knock wood) very little body dysphoria. I attribute this to top surgery, losing weight, and making an effort to wear clothing I feel comfortable in (refusing to wear anything that triggers my dysphoria). I have vestiges of negative body image. I am self-conscious. I’ve never worn a bikini top (even with board shorts) or shown my midriff in public. The tops were too girly, and I was too chubby. Today, I like my chest but I’m still critical of my middle-aged jelly belly. I repeat to myself, over and over, that this year I’m going swimming in board shorts and a rash guard. It is my mantra. I have dormant self-consciousness about not shaving. The last time I shaved was the last time I wore a skirt, and I forget how rare it is for women to have visible leg hair. When I feel self-conscious about it, I remind myself that shaving body hair is a cultural convention that I don’t take part in. Being hairy feels right to me because I associate it with being masculine. I am actively self-conscious about how masculine I look, and how my gender expression makes me stick out. This is strictly about how others perceive me and potentially judge me as butch or transgender. I don’t blend in. I don’t identify with any of the media images of what women should look like. Sometimes I am grateful that there are so few media images of great looking butch, genderqueer, and non-binary people. There is no one to compare myself against. There is no genderqueer at the beach look. As pasunhomme noted in last week’s post, the beach is the most cisgender place in the USA. The public beaches in Massachusetts don’t have formal dress codes, but they prohibit nudity (and women can’t go topless). There is an informal dress code; no cross-dressing at the beach. And my plan is to violate that rule, and swim. Notes: I love this picture of The Beatles at Miami Beach. When I was six I wanted to look just like Paul McCartney in A Hard Day’s Night. Some things never change. I recently came across a short essay by Dean Spade: Dress to Kill, Fight to Win.  It encouraged me to find an alternative to that accursed Speedo.  Body Image and Clothing beach body image butch dysphoria Gender genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer self-consciousness Swimsuit top surgery transgender Dysphoria, Body Image, and Self-Consciousness at the Beach  The GB Swim Teams -1924 Olympics. Men and women’s suits are practically identical. This summer will be different. I threw out my butch standard issue Speedo racerbacks. I’ve hit the point of no return. I didn’t swim at all last year. This year I’m swimming genderqueer. This year I am putting together, as Donna refers to it, a cockamamie swim outfit. Without the cock. I’m only entertaining swimsuits that appeal to my masculine side. Everyone has an idealized version of what they want to look like on the beach. I have mine. Even if the style is 100 years old. Even if the original was made out of wool jersey, and the style was discarded when swimsuits started to be manufactured from modern materials.  Swimsuit styles haven’t changed that much in the past 70 years. Men having been wearing trunks since the 1930’s; the bikini was introduced in 1946. Nylon, Lycra, and Elastane changed the color palette and the silhouette. Last summer, I saw kids and adults of all genders wearing rash guards in the water for sun protection, and fashion. This summer, I’m going to join them. During the past year I have amassed, as yet unworn:  A pair of boy shorts from Danae (I also bought a compression swim top). See notes below. A pair of black boy shorts from Outplay and a matching light compression swim top. I have mixed feelings about these. See notes below.. A pair of Patagonia ocean blue board shorts (19 inch outseam) and a pair of Saturday navy blue board shorts (15 inch outseam). A navy blue UPF 50+ short sleeve rash guard from Quiksilver. A black and white UPF 50+ sleeveless rash guard from O’Neill.   #gallery-3172-6 { margin: auto; } #gallery-3172-6 .gallery-item { float: left; margin-top: 10px; text-align: center; width: 50%; } #gallery-3172-6 img { border: 2px solid #cfcfcf; } #gallery-3172-6 .gallery-caption { margin-left: 0; } /* see gallery_shortcode() in wp-includes/media.php */       One from column A, and       One from column B.   I’ve got until the end of June to figure out the puzzle. I reserved a cottage for a week in July for the three of us (me, Donna, and Gracie). We will be staying near the beach in a small dog-friendly cottage colony. If I’m not comfortable on the beach I’ll be spending a lot of time in the communal garden reading with Gracie. Sometimes a hat is just a hat. Getty Images. The beaches on Cape Ann have rules. No dogs, no alcohol, no bon fires, no camping, no nude sunbathing. I’ve never seen a woman go topless there, not even face down on her own towel. It isn’t Europe. Men and women are supposed to be equal under the law. The law should not be based on a straight male eroticization of women’s bodies. I’m for nipple equality, and not just because I had top surgery (my surgeon told me to keep my scars covered this summer). I’d like to feel the sun on my chest. This year a rash guard. Next year we will see. Notes: Lots of notes this week. An interesting article on nipple equality from The Atlantic. If you are interested in a picture history of swimsuits, Weather.com has a great slide show. If you are interested in the homoerotic history of nude bathing (health) and nude swimming (sport) this website has a ton of information; don’t miss the Life magazine section on boys swimming in the nude. It comes from a lengthy jingoist article on democracy in schools. Danae is based in Amsterdam; they specialize in binders and swimsuits for trans and gender non-conforming people. I bought a regular binder, a swimming binder, and swim bottoms from them. The binder was too tight (I never liked any binder except for velcro ones). The swimming binder had too much compression – the compression fabric went to the bottom of the shirt and I couldn’t sit due to the pressure on my stomach (this is a theme). The shorts are great (and have a little pocket for a packer). I tried to cut out the back compression panel in the swim top and butchered it – my fault. Danae is willing to make swim tops with compression only in the front, or no compression at all. They are very nice, respond to emails promptly, and ship fast considering they are in Amsterdam. I highly recommend them. Outplay is a lesbian owned company, based in Miami, with less of a track record. They make board shorts, swim tops, and swim shorts that I would wear. They are trying hard, but they don’t have a lot in stock, and it can take a long time to process orders. They offer a high and a low compression swim top (low works for me) and they said they were going to make a no compression swim top, which would be ideal. Their sizing was initially off, and I had to exchange stuff several times. It all got straightened out, but it was frustrating – by the time they sent me the low compression top I had missed the summer and I was a week away from top surgery. I hope they make it, but be forewarned that it is not like shopping at Zappos. This is my third swimsuit post. I’m not sure I’m making much progress. My 2013 swimsuit post is here. My 2014 swimsuit post is there.    Body Image and Clothing butch Danae swimwear review genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary Outplay swimwear review queer swimming binders swimsuits topless beaches transgender My 2015 Butch, Genderqueer, Non-binary, and/or Trans Swimsuit Challenge  For most of my life I split myself in two. A tomboy and a boy, and then a butch lesbian and a boy. Public and private. When I realized I was transgender, I imagined that the two parts would merge together seamlessly. A happy reunion. Instead, they are like disgruntled siblings strapped into the back seat on a road trip; neither wants to sit next to the other. I carry a deep and irrational shame about my childhood. Shame that I was a shy, awkward, and unhappy girl. Shame that I could not transform myself into a happy and confident boy. Shame that I kept us from looking like a normal happy family. My mother was hell-bent on me being a girl, even though the screaming and arguing made both of us miserable. I hated getting dressed in the morning. I hated being picked on because I was weird. I hated myself for being a girl, for being unable to find a better solution than just being a boy in my head. I started cultivating the split when I was six. I slipped into boy fantasy at night to put myself to sleep. I did it during the day when no one was watching. It felt right. In those fantasies, I was abused (beaten), and then rescued and taken care of. More than anything I wanted to feel safe and comforted. Something I rarely experienced as a girl. I learned to tune out “real life” and wait for times that I could escape into fantasy. I learned to go numb. I channelled my feelings of humiliation and neediness into my fantasy life. Deep down I knew something bad was going on but I kept it to myself because I could not explain it and I did not understand it. I can look at those fantasies and think that I was just a screwed up kid who couldn’t cope with reality, or I can look at those fantasies and see how much pain I was in, how hard I tried to hide it, and how lonely I was. It is much easier to look at them critically than to look at them with empathy. It is easier for me to feel shame than pain. I carried that fantasy into adulthood and kept it secret. Every few years I would try to stop, sure that I was “well enough” to do without it. I thought I was ready to have my feelings in real-time, with real people. It didn’t occur to me that I used the fantasies to avoid coming to terms with being transgender. Or being abused by my mother. It is not easy to live in the real world.  I’m fine at home, but the self-criticism starts when I go out in public. Old shame. Girl shame. I’m more ashamed of being a girl than a boy. Ashamed of allowing other people to see me as I am. Being present with other people is harder than I thought. It isn’t child’s play. It is better to feel shame than to feel nothing at all. Better to name it than to pretend that it doesn’t exist. Better to get everything out in the open. The feminist in me winces at my shame at being a girl. The writer in me winces because I don’t know which tense to use for referring to myself as a girl. The adult in me winces because I still have a lot of work to do before I can accept that I once was a girl, that I once was that girl, that I still am that girl. Notes: Months ago a reader suggested that I watch Brene Brown’s TED talk on vulnerability, which I finally did. If you are not one of the 19 million people who have already watched it, I highly recommend it. You can find it here.  Authenticity anxiety butch coping fantasy ftm Gender genderqueer lesbian mental health non-binary queer shame transgender Owning My Shame  The Green Mosque – Bursa, Turkey There are hues of blue that speak to me. Cobalt blue glass. Iznik tiles. Lapis lazuli and ultramarine. I have a small collection of blue trinkets from around the world. Before I started nursery school I knew I preferred blue. It is as if part of my brain stopped developing at four years old, stuck in the binary at blue. I wanted navy blue sneakers, blue and white striped shirts, blue overalls, and a blue tricycle. I told everyone my favorite color was blue. I refused to wear pink. Blue doesn’t have a gender. We assign gender to concepts and objects almost as much as we assign gender to people. I assign a gender to everything; some things get thrown on the girl’s pile. Discarded. It is a hard habit to stop. I wear a lot of blue. I still have a hard time with pink. I imagine myself coming out of the womb clad in denim diapers, but I didn’t get my first pair of blue jeans until I was twelve. They were a compromise; bell bottoms from the Junior’s department. My next pair was Levi’s 505’s. The exact same style of jeans that my brother wore. I wear blue jeans almost every day. I also have black jeans, corduroy jeans, and khaki jeans. All from the men’s aisle. I assign jeans a gender, male, and I want to be gendered male by association. Neither of my parents wore jeans. My mother rarely wore slacks, and my father wore “golf pants” and “polo shirts” although he did not play any sports at all. My parents were hopelessly square; mortified by what the kids were wearing. They made concessions reluctantly. We were allowed to wear jeans as long as they were ironed. My mother’s nightmare. Marlon Brando in The Wild One. Jeans were invented by Levi Strauss and Jacob Davis. The early prototypes were made for miners during the California Gold Rush. The miners needed rugged clothing. Originally, Strauss cut the pants from canvas (which chaffed), and then from denim (which softened up). The rivets were added by Davis, in 1873, making the pants much more durable. Jeans didn’t go casual for men until the 1930’s, and they didn’t get popular until the 1950’s. Thank The WIld One and Rebel WIthout a Cause. Marlon Brando and James Dean. We gender people continuously, unconsciously. Every time I see a new person I gender them. My brain races forward, sorting by haircut, facial hair, glasses, make-up, jewelry, clothes. I tried to stop doing it, for just one day. To see a person instead of a gender. To stop looking for blue. Blue rarely occurs in nature. It is difficult to create blue dye from raw materials. In ancient times there was not even a word for blue. Poets did not describe the sea or the sky as blue. When a language acquires words for color, black is first, then white, red, green, and yellow. Blue comes in late in the game. Its attachment to gender is arbitrary. Today I am wearing a navy blue T-shirt over a pair of faded blue jeans. I take blue for granted, but I’m trying to look at it differently. Notes: This twenty minute podcast from Radio Lab explains the history of blue, including why the word blue doesn’t appear in the original texts of the Bible, The Iliad, or The Odyssey. A shorter written explanation on the same topic from The Guardian can be found here.    Body Image and Clothing authenticity blue butch Denim fashion Gender genderqueer jeans lesbian non-binary queer transgender Taking Blue for Granted  Bodhi, the Shiba Inu model from Menswear Dog. Winter is over. I went through the winter wearing the same baggy button down shirts that I wore last year. I wanted to wait until after I had top surgery to shop for new ones. I’ve always worn loose shirts to hide my chest. I don’t have to do that anymore. I need a new magic shirt. A shirt that can transform a bad gender day into a rainbow unicorn. I’m still an odd size. I went to Macy’s and tried on men’s and boy’s off the rack shirts. Some were too big, some were too small, and none were just right. And it looks like I’m going to have to get used to my nipples showing when I wear a T-shirt. I used to try to shop in the women’s department. This was self-defeating because it is nearly impossible to find men’s clothing there. I had a lot of rules. No darts, no princess seams, no little breast pockets, no frills, no ruching, no loud colors, no 3/4 length sleeves, no decorative buttons, nothing cut on the bias, and no polyester. In other words, I wanted a man’s cotton shirt. Sometimes I’d luck out and find something from Ralph Lauren, or I’d order from LL Bean or Lands’ End. I rarely found what I wanted. The lack of choices pissed me off. There were thousands of shirts, exactly what I wanted, in the men’s department. Just out of reach. I tried to talk myself out of them. They never fit. If I got the chest right, the shirt was too big around the neck, too tight around the hips, and too long in the sleeves and torso. Tucking it in and rolling up the sleeves helped, but no amount of tailoring was going to transform it into a magic shirt. The solution was to buy shirts made to order. Custom shirts are a trial and error proposition. It takes a couple of tries to get the fit right. Not all fabrics look good on me or drape right, and I can’t try them on until it is too late. There are a surprising number details to specify (collar, cuffs, yoke, placket). It is easy to make mistakes. But when it works, it works. My favorite shirts are custom. My butch friends and i don’t talk much about clothes. I don’t know where they buy their shirts. We don’t talk about shopping. Maybe talking about clothes is too girly for us. The guys I work with talk a lot about clothes, although mostly they brag about how little they paid (as in Macy’s had a 30% off sale, and they had a coupon, and the jacket was already marked down, so they spent next to nothing for it). I wouldn’t tell the guys at work that I paid $150 for a shirt. Or that it has magical properties. The shirt maker I used before only makes dress shirts. I found a new shop that is less expensive and also does custom casual (denim, chambray, flannel, linen). I’m in the middle of the process right now. I went in and got measured (wearing a tight T-shirt), looked at their swatch books, picked out a fabric for the test run, and selected the collar and cuffs. The first shirt they made was disappointing. It was too tight around the neck and chest and too short in the torso. When I brought it back, they agreed. They adjusted the order and I’m waiting for magic shirt 2.0. The first refitting is free; I hope this time it comes out right, or at least close enough. Once they have a good pattern for me, I can order shirts in my size in any fabric they carry. When a shirt fits I feel handsome in it. I feel masculine in it. I feel normal in it. I don’t feel like a sheep in wolf’s clothing. I wish I could say that I feel good all the time and it doesn’t matter what I wear, but it is not the case. Sometimes I need a magic shirt to remind me that I am fine and that everything will be OK. Notes: If you want to look at pictures of a cute dog in menswear, Menswear Dog is a fun Tumblr site. It has great outfits for boys and their dogs. Last year I wrote about the exact same problem with shirts including my ongoing obsession with which side of a shirt the buttons are on. As Yogi Berra would say “It’s like deja vu all over again.”  Body Image and Clothing butch custom shirts fashion genderqueer lesbian Menswear Dog queer top surgery transgender Transition The Perpetual Search for the Perfect Shirt  A boy and his dog, circa 1890. The dog does look a little like Gracie. When I look at my body, I do not see a female body or a male body. I see my body. In my own little world I am myself. I am Jamieish, boyish, butch, transgender, and quite comfortable. I have made myself in my own image. I wish more people could see me this way. Strangers, even those who initially “Sir” me, eventually read me as a masculine woman or a butch lesbian. How they see me is their truth, not mine. Nobody knows what a non-binary person looks like. My face, voice, and body shape contradict my clothes, haircut, and demeanor. I don’t easily pass as either female or male. In a binary game of rock-paper-scissors, the social construct of sex crushes the social construct of gender. I am pigeonholed into female. When I’m out in public, and I have to choose between the door labeled Men and the door labeled Women, I choose the default, Women. It doesn’t always go well.  How people gender me is an external problem not an internal problem. I don’t need male secondary sex characteristics to feel like myself or to be comfortable in my body, although I wouldn’t mind a lower voice and a little redistribution of body fat. I don’t fully understand my reluctance to take testosterone, but I keep butting up against it and it is real. Despite feeling increasingly comfortable in my own body, there are still three situations that make me want to throw a tantrum: being called Ma’am, being challenged or stared at in the women’s bathroom, and filling out forms that make me choose between male and female. To me, these are not good reasons to go on testosterone or to change my gender marker. They are reasons to challenge the social construct. I’ve got plans. I’m an informal person. I’m trans. There are no spoken honorifics that fit me. I am getting the same cup of coffee whether the person taking my order calls me Sir, Ma’am, or gapes at me unable to speak. Better to ask “What will it be?” and leave gender out of it. I am trying to figure out how to object to being gendered by strangers.  I hope I do better than I’ve done explaining pronouns. I read signs and I know where I am going. It is up to me to decide which facility is appropriate for me to use. As we used to say “I’m here, I’m queer, get used to it.” If a woman is uncomfortable with transgender and gender non-conforming people using the bathroom, let the burden be on her to find a gender-neutral single stall family bathroom. She won’t have to worry about anyone else being in her space. I’m not sure how to express this nicely. I’m going to revise forms that only have M and F boxes and add a third box for N/A. For years I marked up forms that only had Married and SIngle boxes (I added a box for Living in Sin). For on-line forms, I will either leave Sex/Gender blank or select M, depending upon what the computer accepts. Not because I prefer M to F, but because it is a rare opportunity to choose a default other than female. No one is going to give the form back to me and tell me condescendingly that I made a mistake. Notes: The picture of the boy and his dog was not hard to read in 1890, when young boys were frequently put in dresses. Social constructs change. In reading about non-binary bodies in binary spaces I came across Eli Clare’s 2007 speech Body Shame, Body Pride: Lessons from the Disability Rights Movement. It helped me think about the difference between changing my body and changing how strangers view my body. I’ll see how I do with challenging the status quo.  Authenticity butch ftm Gender gender-netral bathrooms genderqueer honorifics lesbian lgbt non-binary queer social construct transgender Does Your Social Construct Make Me Look Female?  I stopped opening my mail. I let it pile up. From December until now. Three big piles. Roy Rogers and his mail. I think Bullet (his dog) is under there somewhere. I have a secret streak of irresponsibility and procrastination. When it surfaces I know something is going on. Years ago, I procrastinated filing my taxes. One year, then two, then I stopped opening the letters until the IRS took the money out of my bank account. The weird thing was, if I’d filed on time, I would have gotten a small refund. Instead, I had to pay a penalty and hire a CPA to straighten the mess out. All the forms I need to file my 2014 taxes are in those piles, and whichever ones aren’t, I’m going to have to track down on-line. I should make an appointment with my accountant. I have phone anxiety. If I don’t call now I could procrastinate for another five years, paralyzed by shame. Like a bad child on my way to the principal’s office, I can’t believe I’m here again. Telling a procrastinator to just do it is about as effective as telling an overweight person to use willpower or a depressed person to cheer up. I muster up my adult self, pick up the phone, and place the call. I know I won’t blow off the appointment. I will come prepared because I don’t want to look like an idiot. I want to look like a responsible adult, even if I feel like a terrified child. I’m afraid of backsliding and screwing up my finances again. Of starting a costly self-perpetuating cycle of anxiety, avoidance, and shame. This is a part of me that I hate. I’m also afraid of gaining back weight; the visible manifestation that I’m out of control and that something is wrong. I could lose my grip and be round again. Or be eleven years old, chubby, wearing clothes I hate, stealing money from my parents to buy muffins from the bakery, and stuffing the muffins down to steady myself, bewildered but unable to stop. Two things my mother harped on were my weight and that I was never going to be successful or be able to support myself (since I obviously wasn’t going to get married and no one would hire someone who looked like me). It is impossible to get those dead arguments out of my head, no matter how many times I prove her wrong. It is no accident that this is happening just as I am starting to feel good about my body. The procrastination and bingeing are warnings. The eleven year old is banging at the cellar door trying to get out. I don’t know what to do with her. I want to tell her that her mother is wrong. It is OK that you don’t want to grow up. There will come a time when you won’t have breasts, and you won’t have to wear anything that makes you look like a woman. You will have a nice chest and you will put on a T-shirt with nothing on underneath it. You won’t have to stuff your feelings down, you will be able to feel the pain and it will hurt but you will survive. It won’t be easy, but you will stop stuffing down bagels and you will pay your taxes on time. And you will feel better. I promise. Notes: Roy Rogers is remembered for his horse Trigger, but he also had a trusty canine companion, Bullet. Bullet was known to rescue him from some pretty difficult circumstances. Unfortunately, Gracie can not help me open the mail or file my taxes. I can’t even take her off as a deduction. This article from The New Yorker (although neither butch nor trans* related) is a good piece on procrastination. A lot of us complain about being paralyzed by procrastination, putting off all sorts of things until we get our act together. I’m trying to break the cycle.  Body Image and Clothing butch compulsive eating dieting ftm genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary procrastination queer Taxes transgender Mail Is Not a Gender  I’m three months post top surgery and I’m happy to report that I’m as comfortable in my body as I can ever remember myself being. If I could do 100 of these I’d be buff. This morning I did push ups in the privacy of my living room; I was only wearing boxer briefs. The push ups were hard, but it felt great to have nothing bound, bra’d, or flapping around. I will do them at the gym when I can crank them out faster and in better form. Vanity. I’m writing this post because I don’t know if the feeling is permanent, or fleeting. I’m writing this post to remind myself that right now I feel good; if I slip back into dysphoria I will still have proof that this happened. Ten years ago I was on an escalator in Macy’s Herald Square. I was wearing work drag – olive-green wool pants and a black turtleneck (both women’s but adequately man tailored). The escalator was lined with mirrors and I could not avoid looking at myself in the reflections.  I saw a chopped up flabby drab butch with breasts, rolls at the waist, and bulges at the hips. I panicked, ran home, and changed into jeans and a flannel shirt.  As transforming as Clark Kent turning into Superman (or in my world view, Superboy). It was at a point in my life when I thought I should make peace with being butch and female, accept my body, and stomach wearing women’s clothing for work and dress-up occasions. I told myself there was plenty of time left in the week to wear jeans and T-shirts. I shouldn’t have to do it 24/7.  I needed to dress and act more like an adult. I needed to push through my anxiety. I failed. Of all the ways I’ve tried to manage my dysphoria, top surgery seems to be the best. I’ve pried my body back from the zombie puberty body snatchers. I tried therapy (still trying). I tried only wearing men’s or man-tailored clothing. I tried binding. I tried losing weight. I tried going to the gym. And although I felt a little better every time I did something to alleviate the dysphoria, I didn’t feel right until I got my chest back. The $64,000 question is why. I now accept that this is the way I am. I am somewhere out there on the butch, genderqueer, non-binary, trans masculine, transgender spectrum. I may never find the one or two word label that works; I may never fit neatly into a medical or psychological diagnosis. I’m not going to force myself into someone else’s limited definition of butch or transgender. I used to think that I had to either make my peace with being butch or transition. Be female, or be male. Repress the boy within or become a man. Do nothing or do everything. A false dilemma. The third hand holds a rainbow. I was afraid to change my name, play with my pronouns or honorifics, take any form of testosterone, or get top surgery. I thought transition had to be binary, a package deal. I thought I needed to take testosterone to have top surgery. It was a false dilemma. If I had not untangled myself from this thought process, I would have transitioned to male, for better or worse. I didn’t start from a binary place and I’m probably not going to end up in a binary place. I’m transitioning; but not from female to male. I’m transitioning while butch. And while it is difficult to categorize a transition that is less tangible than FtM or MtF, it is just as real, even if I can’t tell you what I’m transitioning to. Notes: An Illustrated Book of Bad Arguments describes many of the common logic mistakes in public and political discussions. The whole (short) book can be found here, False Dilemmas are on page 18. Male or Female is a legitimate choice for many; but for those caught in the transgender high-beam headlights it can be a false dilemma. Instead of either/or it can be neither, both, a mix, or not applicable.  Butch Or Trans? authenticity body image butch ftm Gender genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary queer top surgery transgender Transition Transitioning While Butch  By the time I turned six I knew I was a boy; I did not want to be a girl. I also thought about it the other way around. I wanted to be a boy, and I knew I wasn’t a girl. I knew what felt right and what felt wrong. No one could convince me otherwise. I was a boy. I wanted to be a boy. I knew I only felt comfortable in boys clothing. I was ecstatic when people called me young man or son or buddy. I knew that not all boy’s bodies were the same. I knew that some boy’s bodies looked like mine. It was frustrating that no one believed me. In 1964 I could see that the world was split into two separate spheres; girls and boys. So much of what I wanted was off-limits. I did not understand why I had to look and act like a girl. Why couldn’t I choose between the two? Why couldn’t I be an exception to the rules? I refused to believe that how you peed or what was in your underpants determined anything other than how you peed and what was in your underpants. I believed in what you wore, and how you acted, and who you said you were. If I wore boys clothing, acted like a boy, and said I was I boy, then that should prove it. It made sense to me but not to anyone else. I wasn’t pretending to be anything. I fervently believed that I would turn into a boy. Either everyone would realize that I was one, or I would wake up one morning and be one. I could not accept the alternative. I was not going to grow up and be a teenage girl or a woman. I would never, ever, want to get married and have kids, or put-on make-up, or wear pantyhose, or walk in heels. I could not picture the future as female. I would only play house as the Dad. I knew all this. I knew what it meant. I didn’t know the name for it. Everything I know about being trans I learned before I was six. Somehow it got pushed down below the surface by my parents, by my teachers, and by the kids at school and in the playground. I didn’t talk about it. I stuffed down the disappointment and the hurt. I held out hope. I fantasized that I was a boy. I created an alternative inner life as a boy. I dreamed up cockamamie schemes to turn myself into a boy. Outwardly, I was the weird quiet chubby tomboy. Later, I discovered there were masculine women. I came out as a butch lesbian. My gender and my sexuality were muddled together. I lived as if I was a boy, but it was not enough. I kept silent. I kept swallowing it down but I kept heaving it back up. I knew it all again. Where did the truth go between the ages of six and fifty? Why did it take so long for me to return to it? How do I make sense of the intervening years and does it matter? Notes: This post is a reaction to a Simone Weil quote I received in an e-mail a few weeks ago “Nothing can have a destination which is not its origin.” The quote in context has nothing to do with gender or sexuality, but it captures a childhood spent trying to hold onto the truth only to recapture it after a long journey.   Butch Or Trans? authenticity boyhood butch childhood ftm genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer Simone Weil transgender Transition Everything I Know about Being Trans I Learned before I Was Six  My mother used to ask me “Why do you have to be so blatant? Why do you have to let everyone know that you are gay? Why can’t you keep your sexual life private like everyone else does?” Her next line of defense was to ask “Why can’t you at least dress nicely when you visit or when we go out in public together?” The subtext was that I should try to look normal so that no one (i.e. my grandmother or the neighbors) would know and so that my mother could pretend that everything was fine. My mother knew that everything had gone wrong. It was only possible to deny reality. To hide the truth. To keep other people from seeing what she saw. To control what was visible. My mother believed that gay people should stay in the closet. She tried to get me to look like the daughter she wanted. I couldn’t do it. I was born blatant. I will die blatant. My mother asked me to tone it down. I don’t think she ever understood that it wasn’t just a style. That I was never going to look like a presentable middle-of-the-road lesbian. I don’t think she worried about my safety as a young butch. She didn’t think about street harassment, police harassment, or gay bashing. I’m lucky I’ve never been physically attacked, but I’ve been bullied and called every anti-gay slur in the book. Mostly, I get stared at. Sometimes I overhear people say things, but not directly to me. When it happens, I don’t feel that I’m in danger. A couple of years ago, some guy leaned out of his car at a red light and called me a “fucking faggot”. I yelled back “You’re a fucking idiot, I’m a fucking dyke not a fucking faggot.” I walked home, in the opposite direction, keeping an eye out for him, in case he turned around to follow me. I’m half expecting something like that to happen again. Bigots have always been out there, and they’ve been emboldened by the presidential election. I’m wary of unfriendly looking strangers. I feel visible, and vulnerable. Not vulnerable enough to change what I’m doing. If someone is uncomfortable around gay people, masculine women, people of indeterminate gender, or transmasculine folk, they will be uncomfortable around me. When I have an awkward interaction with a stranger I wonder if it because they don’t like how I look. I fought with my mother, day in day out, from the age of three until I left home for college. I couldn’t stand to dress or act like a girl, and she couldn’t stand my refusal to obey. I thought those days were over. My mother has been dead for almost 5 years; I rarely saw her for the last twenty-five years of her life. Last week she showed up in a dream. I heard her asking me “What do you think you are doing, why can’t you be like everybody else, why can’t you be normal?” She’s been emboldened by the election too. Fortunately, when I woke up, I remembered that she was still dead and I was still alive. Notes: My mother was a life-long Republican. She voted for every Republican presidential candidate with only one exception: she didn’t vote for Nixon in 1972 because she didn’t want my brother to get drafted into the Vietnam War. Nixon won anyway. I don’t know if she would have made another exception for Trump. Last week I heard Damon Young read an essay called “Nigga Neurosis” on WNYC (Public Radio). It is about second guessing every interaction, and while it is about race, it is easily extrapolated to gender identity.  Authenticity blatant butch Gender genderqueer lesbian non-binary queer transgender Born Blatant  My kind of locker room. Getty Images. Another visit to the gym and another epiphany. In my previous post I wrote that I feel physically safe in the women’s locker room, but not emotionally safe. I try to ignore my emotions. It is machismo. I use the women’s locker room because I think I should be strong enough to handle it. I think I should have a thick skin and not be bothered by how out-of-place I feel. That changing at home is wimping out. Because I don’t want to let the girls with the pony tails chase me out of the playground again. It is grade school, redux. I also realized that I want to change and towel off like a guy, not a gal. I want to wrap the towel around my waist, not around my chest like a strapless little white cocktail dress. I don’t want to look like a woman, even in the women’s locker room. Even though I’ve never used a men’s locker room, I know that guys don’t wrap like that. Not me. Not Gracie. But I’d wear the green towel that way. Getty Images. If I brought a beach towel I could put it over my shoulders and cover everything in a more neutral way (thank you to Mary for sharing your coping mechanisms). I’ve only seen a few women completely naked at the gym. It is a breach of etiquette to stroll around the locker room naked. It is a breach of etiquette to look at someone while they are changing, especially if you can see anything. Especially if you are a butch lesbian or a masculine genderqueer person with a vagina. Better to be stared at than to be caught staring. I count on the gym to ring my male chimes, and the locker room gets in the way of that. I work out in a heather gray T-shirt and navy blue shorts. No spandex, no capris, no neon, no big logos. I like having muscles, and even though I am not on testosterone, I have pretty decent back and shoulder muscles (for a girl). I am solid for my size. If it would do any good, I’d hang upside down from the gym bars to gain a couple of inches or a shoe size. I’m stuck at 5’4″ with a size 7 US men’s shoe. Unfortunately, neither the gym nor testosterone can help me there. When I first started using free weights, the trainer told me “don’t round your back, straighten it out.” I was bent over at a 90° angle, and even though I was looking in the mirror, I could not figure out how to shift from a rounded back to a flat back. I could not isolate any of the muscles. I could not manipulate my body. Now I automatically check my alignment from my head to my toes. Everything feels connected. My first time back in the gym after top surgery I took it really easy. I dropped the weight down and worked out with dumbbells and kettlebells for flexibility and form. My second time back I dropped the weight but did my regular work out. It felt right except for the bench press. I couldn’t “find” my chest muscles. I could move the bar up and down (20 lbs. less than usual), but I couldn’t feel my chest muscles contract. I was all arms and shoulders. I didn’t have the guts to wriggle around and flex my pecs in the gym mirror. I waited until I got home. I took off my shirt and stood in front of the mirror and took some deep breaths. I tried to flex. Nothing moved except my shoulders. I clasped my hands in front of my chest, breathed in, tensed, and squeezed, and they moved. My pectoral muscles look lopsided (from top surgery), but they are there. I flexed a dozen times and then it clicked. They contracted on demand. I’ll be able to build them back up in time for the summer, even if I’m swimming with the shirts instead of the skins. Notes: Here is a good explanation of why testosterone doesn’t make you taller, from a FtM site in Australia, and here is a twenty-minute movie about a stealth trans man caught up in a shirts vs. skins basketball game.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch dysphoria genderqueer gym lesbian lgbt non-binary top surgery trans* transgender women's locker room Shirts vs. Skins  I went back to the gym for the first time in three months. My surgeon cleared me on January 15, but then Donna went into the hospital. I’m just starting to feel comfortable leaving her alone for a few hours at a time. The truth is, I was avoiding the women’s locker room. All of my adult life I’ve steeled myself going in and out of bathrooms, dressing rooms, and locker rooms. I brace myself for the  challenge. If you see something say something. I don’t apologize. I have the right to be there, but I don’t fully believe I belong there. I feel like an interloper. It was my luck that the first day back, and as I was entering the locker room after my work out, I ran into a work friend of Donna’s. Carol was dressed in her street clothes and packing up. I was in shorts and a sweat soaked T-shirt. We chatted in front of my locker and then I sat down and fiddled with my lock and waited for her to put on her coat and leave. It was awkward. If I hadn’t just had top surgery, I might have stripped down. I waited. I was anxious. Lots of women have locker room anxiety. They are shy about being naked in front of other women. They deal with it by arriving in their gym clothes and then going home and showering. Others opt for the modest multi-towel changing technique. They never show anything between their shoulders and their thighs. They shimmy into their bra and panties while remaining covered by towels. Other women change in the bathroom stall or shower stall, behind closed doors.  It feels physically safe for me to use the women’s locker room, but I downplay the emotional danger. Being able to enter women’s spaces is a privilege I am not ready to give up. Not until there is an all gender alternative. When I first started letting myself blur the boundary between butch and transgender, I would try to remember to wear a sports bra and women’s underwear on gym days instead of a binder and men’s low-rise trunks. I kept “forgetting” and then stopped trying to remember. I got used to it and then it seemed normal. I am comfortable in the weight room, even when it is crowded, even when I am lifting less than everyone else. I’m in my own world. I’ve been stopped by women, and by men, on my way in to the locker room. I’ve had women do a double take when they came in because they weren’t sure they were in the right room. Some women are uncomfortable with butch lesbians in the locker room. Some women have a hard time figuring me out. That is their problem, not mine. I can defend my right to be there. There is a big bold F on my New York State Driver License. I spend as little time in the women’s locker room as possible, but I like to shower after I work out. I sweat; I don’t perspire. I walk to and from the shower with one towel tied around my waist, and another hugged against my chest. Even after top surgery the gym towels are too small to wrap all the way around my chest. I dry off and get dressed quickly, facing my locker. I don’t primp in front of the mirror. Still, I feel out-of-place. This is not unique; a lot of people on the trans spectrum avoid the men’s and the women’s locker rooms because they don’t feel safe in either place. I would like my body to be seen as just another body, and for all to assume that I know where I am going and that I belong where I am. Notes: This is an account of what happened when a trans man used the men’s changing room at a NYC public swimming pool. Unrelated to the above post, last week my local public radio station (WNYC) aired a segment on gender neutral college students. They opened up the phone lines, and you can hear my comments at the 7 minute mark (you can fast forward the player), here.  Body Image and Clothing authenticity butch Gender genderqueer gym lesbian lgbt locker room queer top surgery transgender Transition Topless in the Locker Room  I’m not a goody two shoes.Boy in Little Lord Fauntleroy suit. I’m not a Pollyanna or a Little Lord Fauntleroy. I don’t expect the best from everyone, but I do like happy endings. Not happy as in a boy falls in love with and gets the girl, but happy as in the cop gets indicted by a Grand Jury after shooting an unarmed black man kind of way. Happy when justice prevails. The story doesn’t always go my way, but I am optimistic that things will change. Not on their own. Nothing changes without action. For the first eight weeks after my top surgery, Donna refused to look at my naked chest. She was queasy about my surgery, and was afraid she would react negatively to the scars and the contours. The first four weeks were not a problem. I slept in the other bedroom because I snore like a rusty chainsaw when I sleep on my back. I wore a T-shirt and boxers around the house. I asked her if she wanted to look. I asked her what she was waiting for. While Donna was in the hospital, and unable to get out of bed without assistance, I teased her by starting to lift my shirt. At one point she dared me to do it, but there were two nurses in the room and I didn’t think I could flash her without them noticing. Donna likes ambiguity. She likes movies with endings that are open to interpretation or unresolved (e.g. the French New Wave). She likes to discuss what the director meant, what was left out, and why. I like documentaries. I want to know what really happened, the back story, the details. I want Donna to see my chest the way I see it. People, and institutions, can change. Sometimes through persuasion (coming out), sometimes through non-cooperation (call me by my name or I won’t answer), and sometimes by intervention or obstruction (I have the right to pee in this bathroom). Most people don’t change without a challenge; we must convince them that moving is better than staying where they are. They need to overcome their inertia, their complicity, their fear. I’m a nonviolent activist, but I’m not used to being one in my own home. If you fall along the queer or transgender spectrum it helps if you are an optimist and an activist. You need to believe that you can create change, that things can and will get better, and that there is a reason to keep going. Barbara Deming said that we “have as it were two hands upon [the oppressor]—the one calming him, making him ask questions, as the other makes him move.” I’ve been nudging Donna along. Donna was sitting on the couch reading the Sunday paper. I got out of the shower, and walked around with a towel, drying off, showing, but not showing. She asked me to put the towel down and turn around. She took it in and said it fit me, it looked nice. Nicer than she thought it would look. My scars were not as bad as I said. She liked that I had pecs and upright nipples. She was afraid that I would be flat or caved in, that it would look like something was removed or was missing, that I’d look unfinished. She said I looked like a boy, and that she liked it. She picked up the newspaper and continued reading the arts section. I put on my boxer briefs and strolled around the apartment. I hung up the towel, I put on deodorant, I made the bed, I straightened up the papers on the coffee table. She didn’t lift up her head. I pulled on a T-shirt, buttoned up my jeans, made a cup of coffee, and sat down on the couch next to her. Clean and happy. From the NYPL archives. Photo by Diana Davies. Note: Barbara Deming (1917-1984) was active in the Civil Rights, Peace, and Gay/Lesbian Liberation movements. Excerpts from her 1968 essay On Revolution and Equilibrium are here (the editors revised some language). The photograph is from a demonstration in support of Intro 475 (NYC Gay Rights Bill) and is from April, 1973. Barbara is third in from the left, after Sylvia Ray Rivera and Marsha P. Johnson. Kady Vanduers is to the right.  Butch Or Trans? barbara deming body image butch genderqueer happy endings lesbian lgbt non-binary nonviolence queer top surgery transgender Why I Like Happy Endings  Donna is back home with me. The hospital discharged her eight days after open heart surgery; four nights in the ICU and four nights in the cardiac step down unit. The evening before they discharged her, the Physician’s Assistant told me he’d spoken with the social worker and the physical therapist and they all agreed Donna would do better at home with me than in residential rehab. Medicare is providing a visiting nurse and a visiting physical therapist. We went home with a shower chair, a commode, a walker, a drug regimen, and an exercise plan. It caught me by surprise. The original plan was for residential rehab, and I thought I had at least two more weeks of bachelor living before Donna came home. I had some straightening up to do. Her first night back I cooked a simple dinner. We ate at our dining table, and then sat on the couch and listened to Beethoven Piano Sonatas. It was very sweet. Our new sea sponge. Donna’s nurses in the step down unit gave us a lot of information and advice for a healthy recovery. Mila explained to me how to bathe Donna in the shower. She told me to use a soft sponge and clean the wound area first, keeping the incision out of the direct line of the shower spray. And to give Donna a clean towel every time she showered. I may be an oblivious butch, but I usually give my towel the sniff test before I use it, and keep reusing it until it is close to funky. I consider this part of my reduce, reuse, and recycle lifestyle (i.e. lazy, procrastinating, and cheap). We only own six bath towels (two for me, two for Donna, and two for house guests) plus two old towels for drying Gracie off after it rains. Loads of laundry are in my future. I don’t worry about germs. I don’t use Purell. I eat stuff that falls on my kitchen floor. I’ve got a dog who tracks all sorts of dirt onto my couch and into my bed. I probably only wash my hands a third of the time that I should. I’m a clean freak’s nightmare, but no one has ever gotten sick after eating dinner at my house. We own one washcloth, which is dubbed “The Bercovici washcloth” because we purchased it twenty years ago for a friend who visits us from Northampton. She thought it was odd that we didn’t use washcloths. I guess it depends on how you were raised. We only break it out for her visits. There was no “soft sponge” in our house. There is now. A late night trip to my local fancy pharmacy revealed an astounding array of bath accessories. There were loofahs, synthetic mesh puffs, sisal body scrubbers, boar bristle brushes, and cellulose and natural sponges. I chose a natural sea sponge.  I think it resembles Donna’s heart. Its got valve holes. I set up the shower chair and figured where to place it so that the spray wouldn’t hit her incision. Then I practiced how to wash with the sponge. I sudsed the sponge up and it was so soft, and so luscious, and so very sexy. I ran it over my chest, and over my scars, and under my arms, and around my neck. Why didn’t anyone tell me to use a natural sea sponge before? She sells sea sponges by the sea shore in Kalymnos. Our second vacation together was to Kalymnos, Greece. It was (still is?) a relaxed, low-key, no scene island in the Dodecanese, near Turkey. An island known for its beaches and sea sponges. There were a dozen stores in the port selling sponges, and we scoffed at them because they were tourist traps. We didn’t buy one. If we had dropped our pretensions, and been a little more generous and indulgent, we could have have a lot of fun playing around with those sponges. It wasn’t necessary to wait for open heart surgery. A worthwhile lesson for our next trip. Notes: Most commercially sold sponges are synthetic. Natural sponges are sea creatures, and they are predominantly hermaphrodites (they are both male and female). This page explains how they reproduce sexually by producing sperm and fertilizing other sponges, or asexually by “budding.” This video gives a little history and information on sea sponges and the sea sponge industry.    Authenticity bath accessories butch genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary open heart surgery queer relationships sponges transgender The Sex Life of Sponges  I’ve been looking at heart rate machines all week. Donna had her heart valve replaced on January 21, 2015. As expected (95%), she survived and the operation was successful. She spent four nights in the ICU. Now she is in the step down unit. The next phase is a residential rehab facility, and then home. The medical staff monitor, poke, stick, and medicate Donna. She is tired and doesn’t believe that this is what a good outcome feels like. Everyone says that she looks great and is doing great. I believe them; she looks good to me. What do you think about when your partner is in the ICU? My thoughts were not as deep as I expected. When I look at Donna I feel how much I love her, but I didn’t think about how much I love her while I was there. I realized I made a mistake waiting by myself while she was in surgery. I’m a quiet person, and I didn’t want to have to chat while I waited. I should have had someone with me just in case something terrible happened. I can’t imagine being alone and getting bad news and then going home by myself. I had offers of company that I rejected. I must learn to accept help. Some people in the ICU have no family, no friends, no visitors. I am afraid I will end up like that. I know that I am a one man dog, a one femme butch, a one Donna Jamie. Donna has ten times more friends (real live friends not Facebook friends) than I have. I hope my presence doesn’t negatively affect Donna’s care. I’m afraid that my butchness and transness might put off some of the staff. She looks normal on her own; I change how people see her. I want them to see what I see. No matter what the outcome, the perspectives of the patient, the partner, and the doctors are never aligned. Where are the single stall toilets on this floor? Should I just wander around looking for them or use the women’s and hope no one calls me out? Answer – her floor doesn’t have them, but the cafeteria level does. I find excuses to go there. Should I tell Donna about the guy who tapped me on the shoulder and said “Buddy, that’s the ladies’ room” or should I just suck it up? We now have their and her scars on our chests. Mine are horizontal (top surgery) and hers is vertical (open heart surgery). Her scar is going to show when she wears a swimsuit; mine won’t. What is the right mix of listening, sitting quietly, and reassuring? Who is going to reassure me? Do the staff think I’m here too much or not enough? What would I want if Donna and I traded places? We are so different that it doesn’t matter and I can’t use it as a guide. I try to imagine what I would want if I were Donna, but I have never been good at this. There is a parallel between ABD (all but the dissertation) and being a long-term unmarried couple (ABMC – all but the marriage certificate). A lot of work and very little recognition. I feel that I have to prove my worthiness since I am neither husband nor wife. Except when I introduce myself and explain who I am, the staff ignore me. I think we should get married. Elope. Right now. I am thankful that Donna is getting good care and is improving daily. I watch the nurses work at keeping Donna alive, and try to keep out of their way. I wish I could crawl into her bed with her. I’m looking forward to her coming home.  Authenticity butch gay marriage genderqueer heart valve surgery lesbian queer relationships transgender What I Thought About in the ICU  Donna is getting a heart valve replacement today (January 21, NYC). It is a big deal for both of us. If you are wondering why this is the first you are hearing about it, don’t blame me. She scheduled it last week and it blindsided me. For three years or so Donna has had “aortic regurgitation” and fatigue. She has seen several cardiologists, and tried as hard as possible to avoid taking drugs or getting surgery. The diagnosis was heart failure and a potential valve issue, but she set out to get second opinions. She finally started taking beta-blockers over the summer. Donna can gather information to the point of procrastination. Two weeks ago I accompanied her to a consultation with a valve surgeon at Columbia-Presbyterian. He read her the riot act and I am grateful that he did. The surgeon told her heart was working too hard to compensate for the aortic valve leakage. He told her that the risk of waiting was not worth it, and that she had a high probability of a good outcome if he did the surgery now. Low risk, high benefit. He also explained that the risk gets higher the longer she waits, and the benefits decrease. He told her to take no more than a month to decide. I fully expected Donna to take to her computer and Google for 29 days. She took six days, and scheduled the surgery ASAP. I am glad she decided without my pressuring her. It would have been a long month if she kept searching for articles about outliers and alternative treatments. Donna and I have been together for over 30 years and we are lucky that this is the first real health crisis that either of us have faced. My identity issues around being butch and transgender created a lot of stress, and threw a wrench in the works, but we learned to talk to each other more honestly. I told Donna that I am concerned that she put off the surgery because she wanted to wait until we were both settled in with my top surgery. Until she felt things were solid again. But she reminded me that she has found many diversions from her diagnosis, and my surgery was just one of them. She could have come to this point earlier if she chose to make it her priority; she did not want to face up to it. She busied herself with studying Italian and going to demonstrations. She had projects to work on. There was my surgery to worry about. Donna felt “good enough” and adapted to the gradual decline in her energy level. She wasn’t in a hurry. Until now. The surgeon said there is a “95% chance of a good outcome” which means there is a 5% chance of a really bad outcome. He has performed over 750 heart valve replacements, and I believe him. If he was my investment advisor, I’d hand over a chunk of my savings to him, and take a chance. But Donna is not my savings, she is my one and only, and I can not imagine life without her. it wasn’t my plan to take up with someone older than me. I fell for Donna against my will. I knew on paper it was not a good decision (better to take up with someone younger and wealthier instead of someone older and more intellectual). There are no guarantees of good health, even if you are with someone your own age (my Dad died at 43 and my mother was a widow at 43). You do what you can to put the odds in your favor. I eat a healthy diet and exercise. We have not had the “what if things go wrong” talk because I am planning on Donna being part of the 95%. We have not gotten married because Donna is planning on being part of the 95%. I am her medical proxy, and I have legal power of attorney if it comes to that. But it shouldn’t. The odds are in our favor. Assume no news before next week is good news. I may not have the time, energy, or inclination to respond to comments. I’m going to try to post next week because writing is one of the things that keeps me grounded and sane.  Authenticity butch genderqueer heart valve replacement lesbian lgbt queer relationships transgender The Odds Are in Our Favor  Marcel Duchamp pins the mustache on the Mona Lisa (1919). Now that I’ve had top surgery, I’d like to stop thinking about what to do next and settle back into my butch/transgender self. Without feeling pressured to be on some trajectory with an endpoint. WIthout being swept away by someone else’s idea of the transgender narrative. The pressure to keep going is subtle. The unspoken assumption is that next year I’ll be taking T and using the men’s room. That transition has a starting line and a finish line and once the starting gun goes off all the participants are full speed ahead on the shortest path. There is no place in that race for a meandering half-baked genderqueer person. An acquaintance ran into me on the street and we chatted. Later, she asked Donna how long I’ve taken testosterone for (I don’t) and if I’ve always had a mustache. Yes. I’ve always had what I refer to as my “Fu” but no one said anything about it until I changed my name. My Fu is most prominent on my upper right lip. I neither want my Fu to spread and grow nor do I want it to disappear. I’m fond of it. I never shaved, plucked, or bleached it (chin hairs are another story).  I’d like to regain my patience with whatever it is that I am doing. I lost it in the build up to top surgery, when I was overcome by that feeling of MUST DO THIS NOW. Now there is no rush to do anything else and the quietness makes me uncomfortable. Should I be doing something else? Is it really OK to stop here? I completely understand guys who are in a rush to transition and who want the changes to come as fast as humanly possible (voice drop, muscle mass, jaw square, facial hair). They want to look definitively masculine and be consistently read as male. I can’t say I’m satisfied with how with how I’m read by other people. I feel misgendered regardless of whether I’m called Sir or Ma’am. My appearance confuses people. RIght now I feel as trans as I want to be, and as butch as I want to be. I want to keep tinkering until I get the right balance of internal and external gender expression. Sometimes I feel an internal pressure to transition, mostly due to self-doubt and the fear that if I don’t transition I will never fit in. I can imagine comfort in following a path, a set of directives, with an endpoint of M. I have the awkward deportment of a tween; not comfortable playing with the children or conversing with the adults. It is a lonely place. Newton’s Third Law of Motion says that for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction. As soon as I start thinking about organized standardized medical transition my rebellious self asks “Who made the rules and why should I follow them?” And ultimately I don’t. Every morning I brush my teeth and look up in the mirror. Lately I’ve noticed my Fu, and wondered why it is there. For every trans person like me who likes their mustache or is waiting for one to grow in, there is an equal and opposite trans person wishing their five o’clock shadow would disappear. And we are all looking in our mirrors trying to make the best of it. Marcel Duchamp as Rrose Selavy. Notes: Marcel Duchamp was an artist associated with Cubism, Surrealism, and Dadaism, although he avoided being labeled as such. His art is gender-bending, playful, and punning. The photo is by Man Ray, and is of Marcel Duchamp in the created role of Rrose Selavy – which, like any good drag name, has multiple meanings. In French it transliterates into “Eros, c’est la vie” i.e. “Eros, such is life.”  Authenticity body image butch Dadaism facial hair Gender genderqueer lesbian lgbt Marcel Duchamp mustache queer top surgery transgender Have You Always Had That Mustache?  At 17 I was an active volcano. Every mental health professional I’ve ever worked with has asked me if I’ve attempted suicide, if I’ve ever felt suicidal, or if I have any suicidal feelings. The simple answer is no. The complex answer is I’ve been homicidal, not suicidal. I was an angry kid and an angrier teenager. In my mind I’ve killed off my mother, my grandmother, and Julie and Wendy, the two girls who relentlessly picked on me in elementary school. The only one I was serious about killing was my mother. I didn’t have a good plan. I thought about pushing her in front of a train. I wanted to make it look like an accident. I considered trying to make her overdose on barbiturates, but I never purchased pills or figured out how to mix them with alcohol. There was no internet to turn to. My mother and I never got along. From the moment I learned to talk, to when I left home for good, we were at each other. By nursery school it was clear I was a shy and gender non-conforming kid. Stubborn and willful. Smart but difficult. Odd looking and unpopular. She berated me and criticized me and attempted to coerce me into acting like a girl and dressing like a girl. We fought every day until I left for college. When I was in the 9th grade, my Dad died. The next year my older brother left for college. For the last three years of high school it was just me and my mom, and sometimes my Grandmother, alone together in the apartment yelling at each other. On some level, her concerns were legitimate. Who will want to marry you? Who will want to hire you? You will never make any friends. You can’t go through life looking like a boy. What is wrong with you? How can you go out like that? By the time you realize your mother is right it will be too late. You will die penniless and alone. My mother criticized the big picture and she criticized the minutiae. I shouldn’t wear boy’s jeans, I shouldn’t wear boy’s sneakers, I should wear make-up, I should lose weight, I should grow my hair, I should cut my hair differently, I spend too much time with my best friend it isn’t natural, I should find some boys to date, I should take easier classes so I could get higher grades, I should take Spanish instead of Latin, I should…. I tried not to listen but I heard everything she said. The sound of her voice made me angry. I just wanted her to shut up. I felt perpetually on the verge of losing control and exploding. My senior year I hit her twice. Once she slapped me and I slapped her back, but with a force that terrified me. The second time she was talking and I couldn’t listen anymore and I hit her to make her stop. She was going to call the police but didn’t because she was too embarrassed to explain what happened. I was seventeen. I was an active volcano. I was too angry to commit suicide. Every time my mother claimed there was something wrong me I became more determined to prove her wrong. I didn’t want to be a mother, a housewife, or a career woman. I didn’t want to be the girl next door. I was full of contempt towards adults. I knew I could get into college and I knew I could escape and get away from her. Surviving was like a big fuck you to her face. I was seventeen when I left for college. I knew I was gay. I knew I wanted to be a boy. I knew I was shy and quiet when unprovoked. I thought all my problems were caused by my mother and that when I was physically out from under her and on my own I would be fine. It didn’t work out the way I imagined it would. It was much harder than I expected. At seventeen I learned the truth. Notes: This post is in honor of all the eccentric, queer, trans, gender non-conforming, and angry kids. It is for the Leelah Alcorns of the world. The title of this post comes from the lyrics of a Janis Ian song “At Seventeen”. You can watch her sing it here.    Authenticity At Seventeen butch genderqueer growing up Janis Ian lesbian lgbt mothers non-binary queer suicide transgender It Isn’t All It Seems at Seventeen  I’ll never wear a binder again. It’s been three weeks since I had top-surgery. I look so natural to myself in the mirror that it is impossible to believe that I used to be a 38C. I’m not exactly flat chested; my breast bone is prominent, and even as the bruising goes down, I look like I’ve got pecs. Euphoria. I also have scars, scabs, stitches, and a little flaking and chafing. It isn’t pretty. I’ve got three more weeks to go before I can walk around without compression. I’m sleeping by myself (i.e. with Gracie) because I have to sleep on my back and I snore like Daffy Duck in this clip. Every morning I climb into the other bed, lie on my back, and cuddle with Donna. Donna still hasn’t seen me shirtless, but she has seen me in shirts. She isn’t ready to look at my scars. I don’t blame her. Two years ago, Donna was shocked and upset that I started binding. In retrospect, it was the only trans action I took without prepping her beforehand or waiting for her to get used to the idea. To keep the peace, I agreed not to spring anything else on her and to include her in my decision-making. A year ago, Donna was talking about top surgery as self-mutilation and a form of misogyny. Yesterday, while were on the bus, she said that I look like myself only more so. She said my chest fits me. I had to ask her to repeat it. When we got home I took out some shirts I was ambivalent about. Shirts I would wear as an under layer, but not solo. Shirts that were close-fitting or thin enough that you could see the outline of my binder under the fabric. I tried them on. Imagine my surprise to see that they looked much, much, better on me post surgery. It wasn’t the shirt that was the problem (they don’t “look” like women’s shirts) it was my breasts. My silhouette. Even in a binder.  I also tried on my remaining women’s flannel and chamois shirts (no darts-no princess seams). They are a little baggy, but they lay flat and don’t “blouse out” –  I lost track of which ones buttoned right or left until I put them on. They’ve been defanged. They are suitably butch and transmasculine. My chest fits me. After years of wearing loose shirts and layering to minimize my chest it is a relief to throw on a shirt and have it lay flat. Which brings me back to one of my original problems: I am 5’4″. American clothing manufacturers are convinced that I am a size 10 petite, and they do not make men’s or boy’s off-the-rack shirts that fit me properly, with breasts or with a chest. I don’t mind splurging on custom shirts. However, every T-shirt I’ve tried on recently seems to be cut for a guy who is 6’2″. Consequently, I will start another cycle of researching which brands run short in T-shirts and  which brands run wide at the hips instead of tapered. My goal is to find one that looks right on me, and I don’t think I’ll find it in the women’s sportswear department. Notes: While I was Googling “clothes for short guys” I found The Modest Man. The blog is run by a 5’6″ cis guy named Brock, and he has some interesting links and advice on dressing sharp while short. The photograph is of Harry Houdini (5’6″), bound in chains, ready to make his escape. I know just how he feels.    Body Image and Clothing butch butch body image custom shirts dysphoria Gender genderqueer lesbian lgbt non-binary queer relationships top surgery transgender From Dysphoria to Euphoria  Frieda Belinfante – Dutch resistance fighter I never pretended I was a boy. I just was the way I was. This flustered adults who (mis)gendered me as a boy. As if I was trying to pull something over on them. As if I was being dishonest. As if it was a game that went to far. It embarrassed the adults; they didn’t like being fooled. Being seen as a boy is different from pretending I was a boy. I continued seeing myself as a boy long after I should have gotten the picture that being a girl is permanent. I refused to inhabit the pink world, the Barbie and ballet class world. I refused to think of myself as a girl. Other people call this denial, but I see it as a form of self-determination. I tried as much as possible to stay in the range of activities where I could see myself as a boy. This required a fair amount of magical thinking, e.g. “This isn’t a three-quarter length sleeve shirt – it’s a football jersey and I’m a quarterback.” I dissociated from my body. By staying inside myself I avoided having to face the world as a girl. I would rather do nothing than do something girlish. I played by myself a lot. The stereotype of butch lesbians is that we are pretending to look like or act like men. Some butches (and some trans guys and some cis guys) may lay it on a little heavy for some people’s taste; we may project a type of masculinity that some find offensive or unattractive. After a life time of being told to tone it down and not be so blatant, it is not easy to trust my instincts or to get it right.  If I ever pretended to be anything, I pretended to be a girl who wants to be a boy. I never tried to be a girly girl. It reassured the adults if I said I was a girl even if I didn’t act like one. I learned to throw a few girl’s toy’s around me while I played with boy’s toys. I learned to take out a couple of girl’s books for show at the library when I took out the boy’s books that I wanted to read. I learned to create the illusion that I was doing both girl and boy. When Craig Russell dresses up and performs as Mae West; he is doing drag. When Mae West dresses up and performs as an actor playing Mae West she is doing double drag. If this sounds convoluted, trust me, it is. But, double drag is more common than you would think. Here is a video of Craig Russell singing Frankie and Johnny (1979), and here is Mae West singing the same tune (1976). I was eight years old when I first tried to wrap my head around this concept. I knew being a girl was a charade, but I couldn’t find a way out of it. It was impractical to insist that I was a boy, but I continued to hope that eventually everyone would get it. It was equally impractical to pretend I was a girl; I was incapable of acting like the other girls. Claiming I was a tomboy gave me an excuse for being unable to assimilate as either a boy or a girl. I learned how to do double drag as a way of being myself in public. Boy-girl-boy. Notes: I first read about double drag in this (long and academic) essay by Wendy Doniger – “The Mythology of Self-Imitation in Passing: Race, Gender, and Politics“. If her name sounds familiar, it is because her book “The Hindus: An Alternative History” created a controversy and was withdrawn from publication in India because of objections from Hindu ultra-conservatives. It is still available in print outside of India. Frieda Belinfante (photo) was a lesbian, a cellist, an orchestra conductor, and a fighter in the Dutch resistance movement during WWII. When the Nazis were hunting for her she avoided being captured by passing as a man. She emigrated to the US after the war.  Authenticity body image butch cross dressing double drag drag Gender genderqueer identity lesbian lgbt queer transgender Drag and Double Drag 