Yesterday I had the incredible honor of visiting Christi Williams, the makeup artist and photographer of one of Minneapolis’ most incredible boudoir and pinup studios.  If you’ve known me for more than two minutes you know that I love modeling and having my photo taken.  I’ve been lucky in many parts of my life and working with my friend and photographer Shannonlee from studio Fotofida as been one of the best things that has happened to me.  I’m always looking for a fun experience and this opportunity seemed too fun to pass up.  I’m waaay too shy to do anything in a boudoir style, but who can resist the fun, flirty dresses of a pinup girl? Before the visit, I had a makeover with the incredibly talented Corrie Dupay of Midwest Makeup Supply.  I’ve been blessed to know Corrie for a little more than a year now and even had a makeup lesson with her recently.  She always does *amazing* work, but this makeover was dynamite.  When I walked into Christie’s studio, I was blown away by how…cool it was.  It felt like I was stepping back in time as I was surrounded by vintage furniture and props.  I was impressed with the wardrobe options, of course.  What t-girl wouldn’t be?  The shoe selection was to die for.  Christi is also ready to provide hair styling.  After picking out a couple outfits, Christi and I got to work.  She helped me pose, showed me where to point my toes, how to position my hand and kept things light, fun and playful.  After we were done shooting, we sat down and looked over her work and picked out the best photos.  Once the photos were picked, Christi and I sat and chatter about beauty, fashion and of course, the transcommunity.  Christi works with a lot of transgender clients and does some remarkable work.  She does gender transformations and I can absolutely testify to her talent and support. I am dying to see the final photos and I will post them when I have them.  Until then, I hope you enjoy this preview.  Thank you to Christi for an unforgettable shoot.  If you’d like to experience this yourself, drop her a line. Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing makeup minnesota modeling photos Pinup T-Girl! Hi there Hannah. Just wanted to start out and say thank you for all you do. I am 31 male but I am finally starting to embrace that I enjoy dressing and possibly being female/transgender. Still unsure of some things as I am finally starting to talk about this and I am seeing a great therapist to help work things out. My questions is I am starting to actually dress and not just fantasize about it and just wondering what some good resources are to help learn how to dress and look more feminine? YouTube is great for somethings but like buying a wig and all the styles and different kinds also knowing how to do make up for my face it’s hard for me to know what would be good for me as everyone is so different? The great thing is I am also from MN so I think your insight would be amazing. Again thank you for all you do and for any advice. Coming into your look is all about trial and error.  Coming into your look takes time, practice, mistakes and money.  It’s about discovering yourself.  It’s about finding what you like, what you are comfortable wearing and uncovering that part of you that might not get out very much.  It takes time and patience.  No one expects the first time they paint something that it will be a masterpiece.  Be easy on yourself the first (or even the fiftieth) time you dress up or apply makeup.  You might not look as fabulous as you want, but you’re getting there. This is something you learn by doing. Everyone has a different perspective on what is and what is not feminine.  The best, and the only way for you to find out what you like to wear is to try on a lot of clothes.  Some things you’ll try and like, others you won’t.  Some dresses make me feel like the prettiest girl in the mall, some make me feel like a man in a dress.  The important thing is for you to wear what you like. A wig is not much different.  I tried a lot of different styles before I found the style that I like.  I’ve tried wavy styles, longer styles, styles with and without bangs before I found a style that is *me*.  It’s true there are resources out there that will help suggest what style may be best for your face, but really, who cares?  All that matters is what you like.  So, like clothing, try on a lot of different styles and you’ll find what works for you and what you like. Makeup, like hair and clothes, also takes trial and error.  It took YEARS until I was happy with my look.  It took a lot of practice.  I made a lot of mistakes.  I spent a lot of money. Again, you achieve your look by doing. So, here’s how you learn makeup. You could watch YouTube videos and learn from them but like buying clothes, everyone is different.  Everyone has different skin, different color, different tone.  What works for me might not work for you.  The easiest way to learn makeup is to have someone teach you. Makeup is hard to get right.  There are still times when my eyeliner doesn’t look straight or my color correcting is a little off.  The best way to learn makeup is to schedule a makeover.  I know that sounds like the scariest thing in the world, and it is, but it’s the best way to start mastering your look.  Go to the experts, they will show you which products to use, which tones are best for your skin color and they will teach you how to apply makeup.  I’ve been doing my makeup for years and I probably had ten makeovers in the last twelve months and I still learn something new each time.  Remember, you aren’t the first or last t-girl your makeup artist will ever have. They are trained to help girls like us.  Makeup artists are also trained with advanced techniques, like contouring, which totally changed my life. I have written pretty extensively about getting started and you can read about it here.  I cover topics like shaving, finding your measurements and more. Since you live in Minnesota, I highly recommend you making a trip to Midwest Makeup Supply in Minneapolis and scheduling a makeup lesson.  While you’re there, I also suggest crossing the street to visit Sunny’s Hair and Wigs.  Both stores are very t-girl friendly.  I have other resources in Minnesota here, and I’d also encourage you to join the MN T-Girls. Have fun, be safe! Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah clothes crossdressing makeup minnesota wig Ask Hannah! It doesn’t seem that long ago when I thought I was the only boy who wanted to wear makeup, but 2017 is off to a groundbreaking start when it comes to de-genderinzing cosmetics. De-genderizing?  Is that a word?  It is now. First up, from Buzzfeed, Maybelline Just Hired A Guy To Be The Face Of Its New Mascara.   MAC also has just released their new Caitlyn Jenner line of makeup.  See the entire line here.  Love, Hannah Uncategorized makeup transgender De-genderizing Makeup An anti-transgender bill was introduced in the Minnesota House on Wednesday that could scale back gender-inclusive schools policies across the state if passed.You can read more about this proposed bill here. Also, Texas and Kentucky have filed new bills to restrict transgender bathroom usage.  More on that here… I have a feeling this is just the start… Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender MN Republicans Introduce Anti-Transgender Bill We all know 2016 was a very difficult year when it comes to the deaths of iconic and famous celebrities.  It was a year that not only had a significant number of deaths but also how many were unexpected, starting with David Bowie, then Prince and most recently George Michael.  Even if you didn’t care for their music, I’m sure most of us were struck by the gender fluidity and androgynous looks they presented.  These days a male pop star wearing a dress might not be that big of a deal, but in the early 70’s it was almost scandalous.   Prince was…well, growing up in Minneapolis in the 80’s, Prince was everything.  It was really fun having one of the biggest pop stars of the era living in our city, especially someone as, well, fabulous as Prince in our midwestern city.  I remember seeing him when I was younger and was blown away by him…I didn’t care for his music at the time but here was a man wearing make up.  He wasn’t in drag, he just…wore it.  My whole little world changed at the thought of wearing eyeliner.  These days I suppose it’s commonly referred to as being agender or gender fluid but at the time it really had an impact on me.  George Michael was one of the first celebrities I remember as coming out as gay when I was growing up.  I think all three of these musicians really shaped and changed what it meant to be a man for me. My father was a very typical man of the time…dominating, loud, angry and very mean.  To children, their father sets the standards of what a man is “supposed” to be.  To see these musicians at a young, impressionable time was nothing less than life changing.  Perhaps life affirming might be a better phrase because all of a sudden I didn’t “have” to be anything.  There were others besides myself that didn’t want to be what a man was “supposed” to be. NPR has an interesting article about these artists and how they redefined gender roles and it’s really worth a read. Love, Hannah Uncategorized What it Means to be a Man I’m sure we all have seen the cover for the upcoming issue of National Geographic that features a trans girl. From the magazine: “The story of gender plays out all around us. More and more, celebrities are shining a spotlight on the subject. But more quietly, our children, parents, teachers, medical professionals, and officials every day confront an array of issues with gender at the center. Everywhere we looked, in the U.S. and around the globe, individuals and organizations are fighting to redefine traditional gender roles, whether it is girls in war-torn Sierra Leone rejecting the cultural norm of female genital mutilation and child marriage, men in Sweden making use of extended paternal leave after having a child, or people who reject binary, boy-girl labels and find their true identity elsewhere on a gender spectrum. This is why we’re devoting the January issue of National Geographic magazine entirely to an exploration of gender issues — in science, social systems, and civilizations — and decided to feature the first transgender person on the cover of our magazine: nine-year-old Avery Jackson.” What struck me about the cover and the upcoming article is how much I appreciate a respected media source such as National Geographic putting our community out front in such a public, positive and matter-of-fact way.  Being transgender is hard to explain to ourselves, let alone to someone else.  It is wonderful to read an article like this that explains what being transgender is and what it means in a clearer way than I ever could. Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender Trans girl, 9, makes history on National Geographic cover From NPR North Carolina’s Legislature is poised to repeal the controversial “bathroom bill,” after the Charlotte City Council unanimously voted to repeal its local anti-discrimination measure. The state law, called House Bill 2 or HB2, was passed in March as a direct response to that Charlotte measure — over the course of 12 hours, in the state’s first special legislative session in 35 years.  This is wonderful news.  I was afraid that this law would set a precedent and other states would follow suit, especially with the incoming vice-president.  Bathroom laws change from state to state and change from time to time, so it is important you are aware of the laws and of your rights.  Bathroom laws are also, in my opinion, a way to gauge the public’s perception of us and a way for us to see what they think of us.  A law like this changing helps our community become a little more accepted. Love, Hannah UPDATED… Repeal Of North Carolina’s HB2 Law Fails As Legislature Adjourns Special Session From NPR The North Carolina Legislature began a special session on Wednesday morning to vote on the repeal of a controversial state law that limits civil rights protections for LGBT people, but the effort failed by day’s end as the Legislature adjourned without passing any bill. Read more here Uncategorized activism transgender North Carolina’s Legislature Poised To Repeal ‘Bathroom Bill’ If elected, she would be the first transgender member of the council.      From the Minneapolis Star Tribune  Transgender activist Andrea Jenkins said Monday she will run for Minneapolis City Council in the 8th Ward, which will be vacated by Elizabeth Glidden, who is not running for re-election.    Jenkins, a former policy aide for Glidden and veteran presence at City Hall, would be the first transgender member of the Minneapolis City Council if elected. Another transgender candidate, Phillipe Cunningham, is running for council in Ward 4. “I am prepared and ready to bring positive change toward a more equitable Minneapolis,” Jenkins said in a statement. “I look forward to working with the residents of the 8th Ward, and beyond, in creating the policies and programs necessary to bring sustainable improvement for everyone in our economy, housing, and services.” Read the full article here! Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism minnesota transgender Transgender Activist Runs for Minneapolis City Council This is the final group of photos from the recent photo shoot that the MN T-Girls had with the fabulous photographers from Fotofida.  I am in absolutely in love with this dress and these pictures and I hope you like them too! Love, Hannah Uncategorized photos On Wednesdays We Wear Pink The MN T-Girls celebrated the holiday last night with our annual Christmas party and it was a incredibly fun, glam evening.  This was our second Christmas party and it was a huge success, despite the cold, snowy weather. The party was held at a rented suite and everyone brought something to share, whether it was a bottle of wine or Christmas cookies.  We all looked fabulous in our sparkly holiday dresses.  Over the course of the night there were around twenty of us and it was so fun to meet new friends.  I was so proud of those who were out for the very first time and so happy for those who brought their amazing, supportive. wives. It was a wonderful way to end the year as we looked back over everything that not only the group has done in 2016, but how we all have grown as individuals as well.  So many of us had milestones this year, whether it was coming out to people in our lives or leaving the house for the first time. Thank you the MN T-Girls for making the party as well as 2016 a success.  I can’t wait for next year! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls transgender MN T-Girls: Joy to the T-Girl I think this is so important, especially right now.  We live in a society accepts us and hates us more than ever.  There are laws against us, there are people who don’t accept us, people who don’t even try to understand us. It all gets very depressing. There are many resources for us.  Here’s a list for those of us who live here in Minnesota, but there are many places to get help, to find a friend, to have someone to talk to. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Mental Health and Being Transgender NPR had a fascinating preview of the upcoming HBO documentary The Trans List.   Directed by acclaimed portrait photographer and filmmaker Timothy Greenfield-Sanders (HBO’s The Black List, The Out List and The Latino List, among others) and featuring interviews and an introduction by Janet Mock, The Trans List shines a light on prominent members of the transgender community. Featuring such outspoken subjects as Kylar Broadus, Caroline Cossey, Amos Mac, Bamby Salcedo, Buck Angel, Miss Major Griffin-Gracy, Nicole Maines, Shane Ortega, Caitlyn Jenner, Alok Vaid-Menon and Laverne Cox, the film profiles this diverse group of 11 transgender individuals, telling their stories in their own words, addressing identity, family, career, love, struggle and accomplishment. Simultaneously, The Annenberg Space for Photography in Los Angeles is presenting IDENTITY: Timothy Greenfield-Sanders The List Portraits, a special exhibition in which the renowned photographer’s List Series portfolios (The Black List, The Latino List, The Women’s List and The Out List) will be shown together for the first time, along with The Trans List portraits, through February 2017. The Trans List was directed by Timothy Greenfield-Sanders; interviews by Janet Mock; executive producers, Ingrid Duran, Catherine Pino, Chad Thompson and Tommy Walker; producers, Timothy Greenfield-Sanders, Sam McConnell and Janet Mock; editor, Johanna Giebelhaus. For HBO: supervising producer, Lisa Heller; executive producer Sheila Nevins. Uncategorized activism transgender 11 Transgender Americans Share Their Stories In HBO’s ‘The Trans List’ Winter fashion advice. One of the joys for me as a CD is when I wear dresses. And then January hits and everything freezes! My question pertains to legwear and shoes. Obviously tights ( one or two pair) are the most warm, but what kind of shoes are appropriate? And is it ok to wear more sheer stockings with open toed shoes or strappy heels? What’s a T girl to do? I am totally the wrong girl to ask when it comes to appropriate shoes. Yes, it’s cold out but unless I plan on spending a lot of time outside I usually will stick with what some would consider not-so-sensible shoes.  If the weather doesn’t allow this, then I stick with knee-high boots. Everyone is entitled to their own opinion and everyone can wear what they want, but I don’t think open-toed shoes go with non-nude stockings and tights.  I am always wearing stockings and usually go with nude as I like how they show off my legs and even out my skin tone.  Nude stockings will also allow me to wear open-toed heels, too. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah shoes Ask Hannah! This is the second set of pictures from the photo shoot that the MN T-Girls had recently.  I really like how these pictures turned out, and I really love this dress!  These were taken by the amazing photographers at Fotofida who do pretty much all of photos.  What do you think? Love, Hannah Uncategorized photos The Look of Leather When I started going out, I was worried about what people would think of me, say to me or even do to me.  But years of going out have really helped ease this tension.  The last few years have been illuminating in many ways as I am constantly surprised at how little anyone cares and how wonderful people can be.  I think interacting with kids have been the most surprising.  When I do see kids, they do stare at me.  But when I smile at them, they smile back.  I do wonder what this generation will be like as they get older since transgender men and women are in the news, entertainment and even children’s books.  Society is normalizing being transgender to this generation.  I think shows like SheZow are a step in the right direction. Explaining what being transgender is can be hard and easy at the same time, and explaining things to kids is a different type of easy and hard.  I wanted to share a post on Huffinging Post that featured some great resources for talking to kids about what being transgender means. Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism Explaining Being Trans to Kids Last month the MN T-Girls had an unforgettable photo shoot with the talented photographers Shannonlee and Melina from Fotofida. I’ve worked with these amazing photographers a few times over the last year or so and I am always impressed with their talent.  They make getting your photo taken so much fun.  I am thrilled to show the first of the three dresses I wore that day.  I hope you like them! Uncategorized photos Some Enchanted Evening Gown I am smiling ear to ear because I have been featured in the November issue of the e-magazine Frock.  Frock is a free, award winning, bi-monthly, digital magazine that’s aimed squarely at the transgender and drag communities.  There’s a short bio of me as well as some photographs of my recent modeling work with Glamour Boutique. You can read the latest issue here! Love, Hannah Uncategorized Frock magazine Miss November The hashtag #illgowithyou is a sign of support for the transcommunity.  Lord knows that using the ladies room is one of the most conflicting and difficult things a t-girl will do.  And although it gets easier, it never really gets that much easier.  Every ladies room in every mall, store and restaurant is different.  This issue was also one of the most public fear inducing topics of the year and will likely be a controversial issue for a very long time. I love seeing support for our community from people and organizations that are not transgender.  My wife sent me a link that shows support for us but also a way that we can identify allies who will go with us, meaning they will visit the ladies room with us in case there’s trouble.  In all the years I’ve been using the ladies room I’ve never had an issue but I doubt things will be safer for us over the next few years. This might also be a good time to remind everyone of Refugee Restrooms, a website that lists safe restrooms for the transcommunity.  It wouldn’t be a bad idea to download their app for when you’re out and about. Stay safe.  And fabulous. Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender I’ll Go With You The MN T-Girls started in November 2013 and I cannot believe how much time has passed and how many fabulous adventures we’ve had.  We can’t let such an important anniversary pass without a party, so last night we celebrated in style at one of the nicest restaurants in Saint Paul, the wonderful Pazzaluna. It was a small group, just five of us and it was really nice to put on a little black dress, eat yummy food and talk about…the election.  I know we’ve all had our share of the election right now, but just as the last few years have had an impact on the transgender community, the next few years, and beyond, will likely be the same.  As t-girls we all have concerns and fears and to be be honest, it was really nice to be able to share those same frustrations and encourage each other during such a difficult week. Of course, we also talked about all the other things t-girls talk about…clothes and make up.     I was a little…unsure of how the night would go as it was the first time I’ve been out since the election, and with stories against the GLBT community in the news, I was a little apprehensive.  Thankfully it as a wonderful night.  I had more smiles and small talk than I usually do and a very nice group of cis-women stopped by our table and told us how happy she was to see a group like ours.  We all sat and just beamed in her kindness. I am not sure what the next year in the MN T-Girls will bring or what the next four years in the country will bring, but for one wonderful night, everyone seemed happy to see us. Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls MN T-Girls: A Celebration for the MN T-Girls! I just watched the trailer for ‘The Pearl of Africa’, a powerful documentary about Cleo, a transwoman in Uganda who is fighting for LGBT rights. Last week I had no fear of putting on a new dress and walking down the street, tomorrow night I will be doing the same.  I do this without (much) fear, but it doesn’t take much to realize how lucky we are.  What we have is owed to the generations of transpeople who came before us.  Years from today, generations will acknowledge the efforts we’re making now.  But the fight for tolerance is a slow one, and it begins somewhere. The fight for these rights is the story of Cleo. You can watch the trailer here. More about the film is below: Amsterdam – 17 November 2016 – Feature-length documentary The Pearl of Africa by Director Jonny Von Wallström, is a standout among the many world premieres this year at IDFA 2016. This film is a touching and romantic story about the inspiring trans woman Cleo, who is fighting for the LGBTI rights in Uganda, a country known to be one of the world’s most transphobic places. A world acclaimed story about love, hate and being transgender  The Pearl of Africa is an intimate story about the Ugandan trans woman Cleopatra Kambugu’s life, born as a man – transitioned into the woman as she knows she was born to be. This is a intimate love story about Uganda’s trans pioneer and her struggle to be accepted for who she really is.  The film is a unique portrayal of the Ugandan LGBTI society which focuses on love rather than activism. The film takes us on an emotional journey where Cleo travels to Thailand to have her sex reassignment surgery. A documentation of a couple going through their most difficult time. Through an intimate single character perspective and beautiful cinematic visuals, that leaves nobody untouched. Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender The Pearl of Africa I wish I had comforting, positive thoughts to share about this week’s devastating election…but all I have is a plea for action.  The next four years are going to be very difficult.  If the president-elect does everything he said he would do, people from all over the country will have their lives affected in everything from marriage equality to healthcare to immigration and many other ways. It’s safe to say my heart is broken. Now that the initial shock is starting to subside, it’s time to think about the future, especially for the next few weeks.  The next four years will likely impact everyone that is not a white, heterosexual male in a very scary way. We will soon have a vice-president that passed one of the most offensive and frightening anti-GLBT laws in the country.  As a member of the transcommunity and as a human being, I am saddened and scared.  God only knows what laws will be passed on our community.  Could using the restroom for the gender we identify as become a federal crime?  Could health insurance be banned from paying for hormones? Who knows what will change come January 20th?  Likely nothing good for our community.  For example, the current policy permitting the change of gender on passports was created by executive order, and is likely to be repealed after January 20. Kara Hurvitz, an attorney and advocate out of Boston is compiling a document that is going around online right now about what different demographics can do now to prepare for the transition of power.  The document has a section for transpeople and I really wanted to share it. Love, Hannah Transgender issues/suggestions  Make the deeply personal, and absolutely important decision about how you want to proceed in this climate.  There is no shame in transitioning, but there is also no shame in deciding to put off transitioning until it’s safer to do so. If you decide to continue with transition, begin the process to change gender markers on passports, birth certificates, and other forms of legal identification:  Birth certificate process Passport process  Note that current policy permitting the change of gender markers on passports was created by executive order, and is likely to be repealed after January 20. Note also that an active passport is a necessity for relocating (temporarily or otherwise) to anywhere else in the world, including Canada, so it is a very good idea to have one current and matching your other forms of identification!  You can begin the application process here.  It is possible, though expensive, to get a passport in just a few weeks.  In emergency circumstances it is also possible to get a two-year limited validity passport, though this will be valid for less time and in fewer circumstances than a general passport.   State ID process   If you are on a federal employee health plan or a publicly-provided plan such as MassHealth (or an ACA-created plan), expedite what healthcare you can and explore backup insurance options.  The Commonwealth Care Connector is unlikely to see significant changes, especially in the short term, because it predates the ACA But Medicaid programming may become more streamlined and restrictive!   Get all the non-marriage materials taken care of in case those protections go away:  Health care proxy Power of attorney Beneficiaries of policies Last will and testament (to ensure your spouse has a legal claim to your assets in the event of annulment)  Check the laws in your state to see what makes a valid Last will. Make sure you make it air-tight and non-contestable. Get a lawyer if you can!     Consider contributing to (and referring to) Refuge Restrooms, a web app that compiles information about gender neutral restrooms in public places Familiarize yourself with the names and numbers of local legal protection groups, which will be working to provide advice, materials, and support over the coming months:  Mass Trans Political Coalition GLAAD Transgender Legal Services Network Trans Road Map (legal section)    The Sylvia Rivera Law Project Uncategorized activism transgender Time to Act Maybe more of an observation than a question. Since only a small few of us t-girls can truly pass I think it’s imperative to then master the finer things to near perfection. I think it’s more thrilling to be in public with your hair and makeup on point and your clothes and accessories to be age and environment appropriate causing a stranger or passer by to either not notice or simply nod with appreciation for looking good and “playing” the part.   Now you are much more public and accomplished than I’ll ever be, so I’d love for you to share your point of view.  Thank you. I’ve written a little about what I call ‘the myth of passing’ and the older I get and the more I dress, the more I stand by it.  I don’t think passing is something that is realistic for any of us.  I think if I waited until I thought I passed I’d still be sitting in my car in my garage.  Of course, I would have missed out on so many amazing experiences that I’ve had.  I sometimes wonder what I missed in all those years before I was confident enough to go out. Look at this picture.  Do I “pass”?  It doesn’t matter.  I love you all, but it really doesn’t matter to me if you think I pass or not.  I look at the picture and I see ME.  I remember the day it was taken.  It was a Saturday in July, I spent the day at the Mall of America wearing my new dress.  I found an amazing new outfit, spent too much on makeup and bought a pair of black heels. Looking in the mirror, I know my shoulders are broader than most cis-women, I know my hands are larger, too.  But that doesn’t mean women, trans or cis have to have hands of a certain size.  I’ve seen women basketball players that are taller than me in my stilettos.  And I have tall stilettos. What got me out of my room, my house, my car, my garage all those years ago was a complete and unshakeable confidence in myself and the undying desire to experience the world in a way I always wanted.  I wanted to feel the wind through my long hair, to hear the click of my heels in the mall, I wanted to see my lipstick on the lid of a Starbucks cup.  I did it and I’ve never looked back. I love looking my best.  I know I am likely the most overdressed person in the room, the store or the entire mall.  You’re right, it is a thrill to be out with the perfect necklace and accessories and heels to match my dress. People stare, people take a second look, people say wonderful things, people smile sincerely, people compliment…and that’s all okay.  Even the smirkers.  People look at me as if they’re seeing a transperson for the first time…because there is a good chance they are.  I know I am representing the transcommunity and I want to look my best for us. It’s okay if people think you’re trans.  And really, you’ll never, EVER know what people think of you unless you ask them. I never see what I do as “playing the part”.  I simply am who I am. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah Ask Hannah! Please check out this AMAZING commercial. In a time where there are laws against being transgender, it is simply incredible to see a commercial featuring a transwoman. Huffington Post has written an article about this groundbreaking ad and it is totally worth reading. How many of us have felt like the girl in this commercial? Love, Hannah Uncategorized Groundbreaking Commercial Last week I wrote about the common fear we all have when it comes to presenting in public.  The core of what I wrote centered on speculating what others might think of us.  Of course, we will never know what others think of us unless we ask them.  And I don’t plan on asking anyone what they think of me.  Why would I?  Someone once told me that what other people think of you is none of your business, and that’s exactly correct. Ignoring what others think of us can be pretty simple.  However, it becomes devastating when others tell us what they think of us.  Although almost experience I’ve had has been either mundane or positive, I’ve still had a few instances where someone has said something disparaging to me.  I’ve had two instances this year where someone said something that wasn’t very nice but by then I’ve been going out for years and I felt pretty invincible.  I can’t imagine anyone saying anything at this point in my life that would really affect me.  However, if negative comments were said in the first couple times I went out, it might be a different story. I thought about all this as I read about a documentary called “Walking While Trans” produced by the website Mic.  According to the article, Mic has produced a series of videos capturing the personal and often insidious moments of aggression and judgment directed at transgender people in public spaces. To capture this, a shooter walked in front of, behind and alongside four different trans individuals while they walked through the streets of New York, filming the ambiguous and ultimately universal moments where strangers glance at one another, with no idea what the other may be thinking.  I encourage you all to watch this video and read this article.  Be safe.  Be happy.  Happy New Year. Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender Walking While Trans Meet the absolutely stunning Tabby on the newest addition to T-Girl Spotlight!  Love, Hannah Uncategorized New T-Girl Spotlight! As  t-girl, I pay a lot of attention to the issue regarding bathroom use, which seems like such a silly thing to worry about and pass laws about.  I’ve written about it and I try to stay up to date about different state laws.  The law is not just about bathroom use, it’s about how the public sees us.  I think many people push this in an effort to create fear about our community. This recent article on NPR discusses how the Supreme Court will hear a case on transgender students and using the bathroom that aligns with their gender identity. Uncategorized activism transgender Supreme Court Will Hear Case On Bathroom Rules For Transgender Students Before I was comfortable leaving the house, I always thought of Halloween as the perfect excuse to dress up and hit the town.  I thought that if anyone saw me they would just think that I was in a costume. But as I’ve gotten more confident with being who I am and more comfortable with going out, I have developed a complicated relationship with Halloween.  I don’t feel I need Halloween to dress up and go out.  In fact, I don’t like being Hannah on Halloween.  I am not a costume. But I also understand that for many of us, this is the perfect time to finally go out as who we are. What do you think about Halloween? Love, Hannah Uncategorized Happy Hannahween! Today was the monthly outing for the MN T-Girls and it was a very special event.  Last year we booked a professional photo shoot with the amazing photographers from Fotofida Studios, Shannonlee and Melina.  We had so much fun last year we did it again today!  I’ve been lucky enough to work with Shannonlee on several photo shoots, particularly for the modeling work I’ve been doing with Glamour Boutique and it was super fun to work with her again. The day started off with a makeover with Ulta and after that, the fun really got started.  There were a total of five of us getting our photos professionally taken.  Many pictures were taken, many outfits were worn and our faces hurt from all the smiling. It was an amazing day and I can’t wait to see the final pictures!  Until then, enjoy some behind the scenes fun. Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls photos MN T-Girls: Pretty as a Picture You’ve been doing this for a long time and clearly it looks like you’ve become quite confident, but my question to you is, over time has your crossdressing become less exciting or thrilling or fun? Have you come to a point where you’ve committed to going out as Hannah and then you get bummed or stressed because of having made a commitment to be Hannah? It’s my firm belief that one is always a crossdresser.  We do what we do because it is who we are.  No matter how many times we purge, or promise ourselves…or others that we will never do it again, we almost always do.  Because of this, I think that crossdressing will always be exciting and fun to us.  It’s who we are, but there’s a reason we keep coming back to this. But I understand your question.  I always want to feel that going out as Hannah is special and fun.  One way I help make that happen is by really limiting how often I dress and go out.  I go out about twice a month which is often enough to satisfy me, but not enough to take away the fun of it.  Limiting the times I dress and go out helps keeps my wife from feeling overwhelmed by who I am, too.  My wife is wonderful and accepting of my femme side, but a large contributor to her acceptance is that I don’t overwhelm her with it and I’ve found a good balance with both sides of who I am. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah Ask Hannah! Today is National Coming Out Day, a day for anyone who …well, needs or wants to come out.  I think for many of us coming out is very difficult.  For many of us, we can’t quite explain who we are, why we are or what we are.  In my life I’ve gone from identifying as a crossdresser to identifying as transgender.  I am not a fan of labels and neither label quite describes who I am, but they come close. It’s hard to come out to someone when you aren’t exactly sure who you are.  Being who we are is very simple and very complicated at the same time.  Some of us need a lifetime to feel at peace with who we are, to be able tell ourselves who are are.  Telling someone else is almost exhausting.  It’s hard enough for us to understand who we are, but it’s even harder for someone else to understand, or accept us. I hope you all have someone in your life you can beyourself with, someone you can honest about yourself with.  Ours is a lonely, beautiful life. Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender National Coming Out Day Some of the dresses I modeled are now available on Glamour Boutique’s website!  You can purchase them here. Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing Glamour Boutique modeling transgender Now You Can Wear My Clothes This is a pretty interesting article from NPR about a transgender police officer in Washington DC.  Officer Hawkins talks about some of the things almost all of experienced…from dressing up in childhood to the fear of coming out.  Reading about a member of the trans community doing what many people view as a very masculine job really puts things like gender roles in a new light. I encourage you to read it.  She also talks about transitioning and how not only did she change, her family did too. Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender Meet Officer Hawkins There are times this father of a daughter and loving husband feels feminine. Very, very feminine. I like to dress up. I like being a woman I have always felt this. I have always felt that I should be not a masculine being but the other end. I cannot explain it any better then that. When the phase shifts I am again man. I put away the dresses. The shoes (hardest part. I LOVE my shoes). I really don’t know. Am I a t-girl? A wannabe? A pretender?  The last thing I want is to diminish the bravery that you and other have shown in show in the world who you are. Are there others like me? Caught between one life or another?  Who am I? I think most of go back and forth between how we identify ourselves.  Sometimes these identities can change throughout the day, or even longer.  Four years ago I identified as a crossdresser; these days it is transgender, but I prefer t-girl.  The term transgender does cover a lot of different identities, and labels, if you will. My suggestion is to stop stressing about how you identify.  It’s okay if it changes.  It probably will, however, the term transgender is a bit of a catch all and likely covers everything we all feel we are. It’s also normal for many of us to shift back and forth between what we feel like doing.  Sometimes I feel like reading, sometimes I feel like doing yardwork, sometimes I feel like getting a makeover.  You don’t have to pick one thing to do, to wear, or to be. And yes, there are others like you.  There are so many like you. As for myself, I fully embrace having two lives, having two genders.  Sometimes they blend together but why should I pick one?  Some of us do, but I like having options. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah Ask Hannah! Glamour Boutique asked to have some “lifestyle” shots when I did my photo shoot recently with Shannonlee. Lifestyle shots are photos where I model outfits and doing normal, everyday things…like sitting seductively on a desk which is something I do all the time. These were some of my favorite pictures and I hope you like them! Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing Glamour Boutique modeling photos transgender Lifestyles of the Trans and Fabulous One of the first books I ever read about being crossdressing was written by Charlie Jane Anders and titled ‘The Lazy Crossdresser’.  If I ever were to write a book, I think it would be called ‘The Realistic T-Girl’.  If I have a message, it’s that being who we are is…complicated and super fun and stressful all at the same time to varying degrees.  Some days are more fun or stressful or humbling than others.  It’s not all pink and high heels and glitter.  I would be wonderful if we could be who we are without any sort of criticism, discrimination, fear, hatred, sideways glances or smirks. But that’s not realistic. For some, it would be wonderful for us to “pass”, to appear in public without anyone thinking that we are genetically male or transgender.  I have written pretty extensively about my perspective about “passing” previously and although I don’t believe in “passing”, I understand why this is a goal for some of us.  It was a goal for myself years ago but I don’t care at all what others think of who I am when I go out.  For some of us, we want to be able to look so feminine that no one will think we were born male. But that’s not realistic. What helped me go beyond the idea of passing was simply slipping on a pair of heels and experiencing the world as who I am.  I absolutely accept that it’s incredibly likely that anyone who sees me knows that I am transgender, but my experiences taught me that the vast majority of people in the world could care less.  That first time out during the day I interacted with baristas, cashiers, people at Target and restaurant servers and had nothing but positive or at least mundane experiences.  Some people went out of their way to be kind and some didn’t even bat an eye when they saw me.  I had low expectations the first time I went out.  I was scared to death and was hoping that no one would laugh at me or threaten me or set me on fire for being a threat to society.  That didn’t happen and I am pleased that even after all these years I still have not been burned at the stake.  My experiences taught me that no one really cares that I’m transgender.  It would be incredible if no one in the world cared if anyone was transgender. But that’s not realistic. We live in a world were people hate us, fear us, misunderstand us and do not even try to.  We live in a world where laws are consistently introduce to repress our rights.  We live in a world where the CDC has banned the very name many of us use to identify who we are.  We live in a world were transgender men and women do get harassed, threatened, hurt and killed on a daily basis simply for existing. But this will surely change, right?  Maybe not for a couple years but this will change, right? No.  It won’t. That’s not pessimism.  That’s reality.  Social justice and social change takes decades, even centuries sometimes, if the change happens at all.  Look back throughout history and you will see that we can pass all the laws we want, but that doesn’t mean everything is fine.  Sure, women were given the right to vote in 1920 but that didn’t solve the problem of gender inequality.  Slavery was abolished in 1865 but the Klu Klux Klan still exists.  I do not expect the hatred and misunderstanding of who we are to go away in my lifetime, in yours, or in the next generation’s lifetime.  It would be nice… But that’s not realistic. So, how do we live and be happy and accept ourselves when so many things we want are not realistic?  For starters, you just have to strut out of the house, head held high wearing a smile and not give a second thought to what others are thinking…because for the most part, they don’t care.  And really, how will you know what they think?  Are you planning on asking them?  If there’s anything I want others to take away from my blog it’s how to manage our expectations when reality might be working against us.  For myself, it would be wonderful if I could spend just 15 minutes on my makeup and head out the door.  But the reality is that I am genetically male and hair grows out of my cheeks, neck and all over my face.  I can shave very closely, but I still have a light hue to my face.  So, in my reality, I need to do some color correcting and add three layers of different foundations to counter that.  It would also be idea if I could just pop into Target and find a new pair of heels that fit, but in my reality I need to shop at stores that sell heels that go up to size 11 1/2 and most stores stop selling shoes after size 11.  So close. My shopping reality takes a little adapting, but it’s fine.  I’ve learned how to live with it.  My reality also means, at times, a complicated relationship with some people in my life, but again, I’ve readjusted my expectations.  It would be wonderful if we could all be who we are without fear of…anything from anyone in our lives, from the gas station cashier to our parents.  It would be amazing if everyone accepted us, loved us.  It would be incredible for us to have “permission” to walk out the door in our favorite dress without fear of anything. But that’s not realistic. Instead, we can accept ourselves.  We can love ourselves.  Acceptance and permission does not need to come from the government, from society or from our families.  It doesn’t need to.  Even if we were given this from others, it doesn’t matter if we don’t give this to ourselves.  It’s hard to be who we are.  I get that.  I know that.  For those who are not where they want to be this is very much understood.  For those who have accepted and embraced who we are we know that this did not come easy, and it’s still not always easy. Reality is…well, it’s difficult at best.  We cannot wait for reality to line up with what we want to be who we are.  If you are waiting for everyone in the world to signal that it’s okay to be transgender then you’ll be waiting a very, very long time.  Instead, it’s time to buy that dress and hit the mall.  The museum.  The steps of the capital.  Anywhere you want.  Any acceptance, tolerance and legal right we have came from those before us.  The brave men and women who marched, who demonstrated, who were arrested, who were hurt and killed for what we have have brought attention and change to our social and legal status.  We may not have everything we want or deserve, but it’s slowly, slowly getting there.  But what we have came from some form of activism, whether it was a protest, a campaign or by simply existing.  I like to think that when I am out in the real world I am helping create awareness that transpeople exist and that we’re normal and not a threat to a society.  I like to think that the more people see us, the more unremarkable we become to others which leads to more acceptance. If we want to the real world to accept us, then we need to get out in the real world.  So yes, getting a makeover and hitting the mall looking amazing can lead to social change.  How fun is that? It’s unrealistic to wait for the world to love us and accept us before we let ourselves be who we are, or want to be.  Be you.  Be you now. Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender Reality and the T-Girl I think many of us knew there was something unique about us at a very young age.  I never thought there was something ‘wrong’ with me because I wanted to wear pretty dresses growing up, but I knew it wasn’t something everyone did.  I remember being as young as five and wanting to wear lipstick and secretly trying on my mom’s heels when she wasn’t looking. I saw this article on Buzzfeed and it got me thinking about when I was young.  It wasn’t a term that was around then, but I suppose I would have been called gender variant or gender non-conforming then.  I never thought that clothes had a gender. From the article: In October 2015, Nicole buckled in to her mom’s Prius, along with her older brother, mom, dad, and a bag full of her favorite dolls, for a three-hour drive to see a doctor about her new life. Over the past 18 months, the 9-year-old had grown out her black curly hair from a crew cut to a flouncy bob just below her ears. She had traded in pants and overalls for pink and purple dresses covered in rhinestones. And she had changed her name, ditching the common boys name that now made her cringe to hear. It had been a challenging time for Nicole’s parents, Kim and Andrew, whose conservative Christian circle of friends in Texas rejected the entire family after seeing the changes in this kid. Nicole was happier than she’d ever been, but the trip ahead still made her anxious. So, trying to calm her nerves, Kim switched on her daughter’s favorite book on tape, Hank the Cowdog, and stopped to get her kolaches, the Czech pastries that Central Texas is known for. Then she gave her an early birthday present: Next year, when she turned 10, they would get her a prized American Girl doll, just as they had for her older sister a decade earlier. Read the rest here. Uncategorized When Did You Know? I love reading about your adventures and experiences.  You say that you think you are too tall to pass in public.  Would you tell me how tall you are without shoes, & then how tall of a heel that you wear?   The reason that I ask is that I am 6ft 4 in. barefoot, I wear 2 1/2 inch heels, as that is the lowest heel that I am able to find in a size 17 women’s shoe.  Flats do not seem to be available in that size. I don’t think anyone is too tall to pass.  I don’t think anyone is too…anything to pass in public.  The only person’s opinion about whether or not you’re beautiful is your own.  What do you care if the guy you walked by at the store doesn’t like your look?  It doesn’t affect you.  You’ll never please everyone, so focus on making yourself happy.  I don’t think you can have standards as to what one should look like to look like a woman because then we have expectations on what a cis-woman “should” look like.  Have you ever looked at a cis-woman and thought she was too tall to look like a woman?  Every time I think I am the tallest girl in the mall, I see a girl taller than I am. I say this because I’d like to do my part in moving our community away from the need to “pass” and helping others really examine why passing is a myth and ultimately an unrealistic expectation and holding us back.  I don’t know a single cis-woman who worries that she is not pretty enough or short enough or not girlish enough to “pass” as a woman in public.  I’ve never heard a cis-woman say that she is too tall and people won’t know she’s a girl.  Cis-women know that all women are different and have different bodies and are different sizes.  T-girls are not any different. I digress.  I am a little over 6 feet tall and I wear everything from flats (no, I’m kidding, I don’t wear flats) to five inch stilettos.  I usually leave the stilettos at home and wear a 2 or a 3 inch heel when I go out. I am not trying to pass or blend in by wearing the shorter heel, I dress and wear what I wear based on what is appropriate to where I am going.  A tight mini dress and sky high heels are perfect for a club but you’ll stand out at Target. So, mall outfits…   These, not so much.   I am surprised you’re having trouble finding flats in that size.  Have you tried visiting this site?  I think you’ll have better luck online. I hope this helps! Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah Shopping Ask Hannah! From Huffington Post: ABC’s hit TV series “Modern Family” will feature TV’s first transgender child in a groundbreaking show on Wednesday. Shows such as “Orange is the New Black” and “Nashville” have cast adult transgender actors to play transgender characters. But “Modern Family” newcomer Jackson Millarker, who openly identifies as transgender, is the first child actor to appear in such a role. More here… Uncategorized transgender ‘Modern Family’ Makes History By Casting TV’s First Transgender Child Actor In the fall of 2016, I started modeling for Glamour Boutique, a store that specifically caters to the crossdresser and transgender community.  Not too long ago, they interviewed me for for their blog and soon we started talking about doing some modeling for their new line of clothing.  The photos were taken by the always fabulous Shannonlee.  Shannonlee and I have done quite a few shoots in the past and I was thrilled to work with her again! Here are some pictures of some of the behind the scenes action and candid moments.  It was such a fun day and you can see the final photos here.  Fun fact, the little tears in the paper are puncture holes from the stilletos I wore all day.  Those heels were high and are serious business! Uncategorized crossdressing Glamour Boutique modeling photos transgender Behind the Scenes! Do you have any other hobbies?  Or do you focus on crossdressing related activities in your free time?  Just curious. I like to keep busy and I am almost always doing something.  Sitting on the couch watching tv is not something I do very often.  I do like to read and I stay active by running, biking and working out.  Although I feel I have two halves of my life, I try to maintain a balance between them and not let crossdressing dominate my life, despite what my website suggests.  Balance is important especially when you are married. Balance with anything in life is tricky, especially to crossdressers who are newly out to their significant others.  When we come out to someone, especially our partners, it can go many different ways.  Sometimes our partners are willing to see how crossdressing will affect their relationship and will allow us to wear panties or dress at home or set boundaries.  Many relationships are damaged when limits or boundaries are broken.  Crossdressing alone usually doesn’t lead to a broken relationship.  I hear from many t-girls that their relationship was damaged when they violated the boundaries their wives set, such as being asked to not post pictures online or leave the house.  Lying to your significant other, whether about crossdressing or anything else never helps a relationship.  If a crossdresser has a supportive partner, it is so easy for us to just go from zero to sixty with this.  All of a sudden our drawers are filled with lingerie and our closets have dozens of dresses in them.  This can lead our partners into thinking where will this end and wondering what they have gotten themselves into. Usually a crossdresser gets one chance to bring this part of us into a relationship.  If we let this part of us dominate our lives or overwhelm our partners, it can lead to some very hurt feelings.  So, we especially need to keep balance in mind because it is not fair to our partners or significant others or wives. I will take this moment to remind all of us that if you are not married, please, please, please tell your partner about this part of you before you do get married.  It is not fair to spring this on them after you are wed.  I fully believe in putting all cards on the table before you commit to each other. Anyway, balance. I have a friend who loves football.  He met a girl a few years ago who also loved football.  He thought he hit the jackpot.  She loved watching the games, loved tailgating, wore her jersey proudly and knew as much about the teams as he did.  They met and fell in love over a shared interest they were both passionate about.  He was thrilled he found someone who supported his hobby. After a while, football really took over his life.  Whenever a game was on, he’d watch it.  All weekend he’d sit in front of the television watching sports.  He’d go to the home games, he’d go to Fantasy Football drafts, he lived and breathed football.  It was all he talked about.  His wife’s interest, however, didn’t keep up with his.  It got to the point where she was exhausted by it.  It dominated their relationship.  Everything was centered around the game.  They’d fight about it, she was frustrated by how this took over their life and she was simply overwhelmed by it.  Although she loved football, she grew weary of it and hated that she lost her husband to something. He on the other hand was confused by how she had changed.  He thought she was into football and thought she was supportive of his passion for it.  Unfortunately he let it dominate their lives.  It was all he talked about, all he watched, all he did. Having a supportive significant other is a wonderful thing.  Whether they are supportive of a hobby, a job, or crossdressing.  The thing we all need to remember is that we can’t let anything take over our relationship.  When many of us come out to our wives, we find it hard to talk about anything else.  I was careful not to let this overwhelm my wife with this side of me.  I tried not to talk about it constantly.  Sometimes it was hard and sometimes I wasn’t paying as much attention to her as I should have and didn’t pick up on her thoughts and feelings.  Through honesty and communication we found a very balanced life when it came to my crossdressing. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah crossdressing married transgender Ask Hannah! Frock Magazine is a free transgender e-magazine for crossdressers and transgender people everywhere, full of features and articles about well known members of the transgender community, crossdressing clothes and clothing guides, makeup tutorials, transgender related movie and book reviews, trans-activism, news and fiction. I’ve been contributing to Frock for a while now and the issue is out! You can read it here! Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing Frock magazine transgender The new Issue of Frock is Out! NPR recently interviewed actor Jeffrey Tambor, who plays Maura on the Amazon series Transparent.  From the article: Transparent is about a transgender woman named Maura who for decades was known to her kids as Mort, or Dad. Actor Jeffrey Tambor plays Maura and has just won a second Emmy for his performance. “When those roles come along, you don’t run away,” he tells NPR’s Kelly McEvers. “It’s a perfect role, you know? I thought I was gonna do Lear, but I’m gonna do Maura.” Tambor isn’t transgender, and when he accepted his latest Emmy, he told the crowd that more trans actors should be given a chance to play roles like his: “I would not be unhappy were I the last cisgender male to play a female transgender on television,” he said. More… Uncategorized transgender ‘Transparent’ Actor Jeffrey Tambor Says He Found His Dream Role The new rules will require officers to address transgender people using their preferred names and pronouns.  The Minneapolis Police Department has issued new guidelines on the treatment of transgender and gender nonconforming people, essentially restricting officers from singling out suspects based on their sexual orientation. Police Chief Janeé Harteau and Mayor Betsy Hodges announced the new rules at an afternoon news conference at City Hall on Wednesday. The policy change builds on the department’s mission of “learning and growing and understanding the people we serve,” Harteau told reporters at an afternoon news conference. “We need to be able to interact with them properly,” she said. The new rules compel officers to address transgender people using their preferred names and pronouns, while frisks and pat-downs will be conducted by “an officer of the gender requested by the suspect.” Source Uncategorized activism minnesota transgender Minneapolis Police Announce New Transgender Policy Not too long ago, I announced that I would be doing some modeling work for Glamour Boutique, a store that sells clothes, breast forms, makeup and shoes designed for the crossdresser and t-girl community. I am thrilled to reveal some of the final photos that I shot with Minneapolis photographer Shannonlee of Fotofida.  I’ve done quite a few photo shoots with her already and it’s always a thrill to work with her. I am excited to share some of the final photos from that day.  These and other photos are up on Glamour Boutique’s newsletter and website but you can also see more here.  I hope you like them, too! Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing Glamour Boutique modeling photos transgender Glamour Girl! I don’t get out often so I’m curious, do you ever worry about your dress blowing up in the wind or worse, losing your wig?  If it has happened, how do you deal with that in public?  #tgirlproblems  One of the first times I went out, I experienced the joy and thrill of the wind blowing through my long hair.  It was an amazing feeling.  I was afraid that the wind would blow my hair off, but that hasn’t happened.  If you are purchasing the right wig, this is unlikely.  Most wig stores sell extra-large wigs but for the most part, a standard size wig will fit most of us.  If the wig is too large, it might blow off, if it’s too small, there’s a chance it might not be on tight enough to keep it in one place.  There are also some steps you can take to ensure this such as taping, tying, and even gluing your wig to your head.  This might be not be necessary but many t-girls, performers, and drag queens use these tricks.  Not because they are afraid of the wind, but it does help keep their hair in one place.  Sometimes a wig can move a little, either side to side or front to back.  If you find yourself constantly adjusting your hair throughout the day, it might be time for a different size wig. The wind does pose other issues besides losing my hair.  I used to have wavy, curly hair like in the picture and although I loved the look of it, one gust of wind or a strong breeze completely messed up my hair and I was constantly having to fix it and make myself presentable again.  After spending an entire weekend outside at Pride this summer, I decided it was time to go back to my long, straight, hairstyle. Depending on the dress or the skirt you’re wearing, the wind might give people a glimpse of yourself you didn’t intend them to have.  Using your hands to hold down your skirt so the wind doesn’t blow it up does take some getting used to.  If the wind is really crazy then you really have your hands full.  I think those of us who have been out of the house know what I’m talking about. If it’s very windy, I suggest keeping your hands to your sides to hold your dress down.  Simply holding it down in the front is not going to keep the back from flying up and it’s awkward to hold a skirt down behind you.  The only time this really happened was also at Pride this summer.  I wore a really cute dress that had a billowing skirt.  It was windy that day and as I walked to my car I was constantly brushing my hair out of my face and trying to keep my skirt from flying up.  I was a hot mess that day. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah crossdressing transgender wig Ask Hannah! This is the fourth and final outfit I wore for the fall photo shoot.  I have to say that these are my favorite photos ever.  I love love love this dress, it’s so fun to wear.  I wore a petticoat to fluff it out a bit and I love how it looks! Love, Hannah Uncategorized photos Fall Photo Shoot – Rose Dress! Hi, thank you for visiting my blog! My name is Hannah McKnight and I identify as transgender but I prefer the term T-Girl. For years I kept a daily blog called Hannah’s Diary but after four years it was time for a change and I created a new website focusing on fashion, advice and activism.  Over the last few years I have gotten more involved with trans-activism, social awareness and creating a supportive environment for all transwomen. I live in Saint Paul, Minnesota so much of my blogging focuses on the Minneapolis and Saint Paul area especially when it comes to resources, support and hitting the town. I also contribute to Frock magazine and model for Glamour Boutique. I hope you enjoy my blog!  I would love to hear from you! Love, Hannah Uncategorized Welcome! On Tuesday, December 19th, the Twin Cities chapter of PFLAG will be hosting theologian and author Austin Hartke who is promoting his new book ‘Transforming:  The Bible and the lives of Transgender Christians‘ which focuses on faith and identifying as transgender. From their website:  Austen Hartke is the creator of the YouTube series “Transgender and Christian,” which seeks to understand, interpret, and share parts of the Bible that relate to gender identity and the lives of transgender individuals. Austen is a graduate of Luther Seminary’s Master of Arts program in Old Testament/Hebrew Bible Studies, and is the winner of the 2014 John Milton Prize in Old Testament Writing from the same institution. Currently, Austen lives in St. Paul, Minnesota, where he is preparing to release a collection of biblical and modern narratives from gender-non-conforming people of faith. His book “Transforming: The Bible and the Lives of Transgender Christians,” will be published with Westminster John Knox Press, and released on April 7th, 2018.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   Tuesday, December 19th , 2017 at 6:30 pm  Union Congregational Church 3700 Alabama Ave S, Minneapolis, MN 55416  Support groups will be held at 7:30 pm directly following the program.    Let me know if you go!  Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota transgender The Bible and the Lives of Transgender Christians I am having a hard time believing that Christmas Eve is two weeks away.  The holiday season can be stressful and busy, which makes the annual MN T-Girls holiday party all the more fun! Last night about fifteen of us gathered for drinks, food, holiday music, girl talk and fun.  It was a time to take a break from the busy holiday season, show off our new sparkly Christmas and look back on 2017.  In addition to using the night as an excuse to be fabulous, we also sponsored a family who has had a really hard year.  Because of the generosity of the group, we were able to give a family a hopefully brighter holiday by donating money and gift cards.  Seeing the T-Girls open their hearts and purses to this family who has been struck by tragedy made my heart soar.  Thank you to everyone who helped. I had such a fun time and I spent a bit of the evening reflecting on all the amazing things we did this year as a group.  I made a lot of new friends and had a lot of new adventures.  We talked about what we want to do next year and I am excited and recharged for our next events.  Organizing and planning a group like this is exhausting but it’s also one of the most rewarding things I’ve ever done.  Thank you to every MN T-Girl out there for making the group as successful as it is.    I can’t wait for 2018! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls Fab-Yule-Ous! I found this dress over a year ago and I fell in love with it as soon as I saw it.  I bought it without even trying it on, as I was confident it would fit as it was my size.  When I got home I was crushed because I couldn’t even zip it up. I know what you’re thinking….that I need to drop a few pounds before I could wear it, but to be honest, I didn’t think that was it.  The zipper had this annoying little catch that didn’t allow the zipper to go up all the way, even if I wasn’t wearing it. Determined to wear this dress, I actually had the zipper replaced…but it was still giving me trouble.  I looked into all sorts of tricks to help a zipper glide more smoothly but nothing worked. I really wanted to wear this for my recent photo shoot, so I took the dress out of the closet, and zipped the zipper up and down about a million times and it seemed to have gotten the kinks or whatever out of it.  The first time I was able to get the zipper up while wearing it was a wonderful experience. I love how these photo turned out and I can’t wait to wear this again! Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing modeling photos Fall Photo Shoot – Yellow Dress Hi Hannah, I’ve been cross dressing for almost 2 years now. Was it hard to go out in public for the first time, and what was your friends and family’s response? It was hard to go out the first time, but each time I’ve gone out it has gotten easier.  The first time you go out, I would recommend going to a PFLAG meeting or another LGBTQ support group.  Knowing you are going to meet a supportive group of people will make our first time out a little easier. Before you go out, please make sure you are ready.  Before I go out, I always make sure my purse has: -Eyeliner -Lipstick -Finishing powder -Mascara That’s the fun stuff.  The reality is that I have a lot more in my purse than makeup.  I recommend every t-girl have the following in their purse: -Cash.  This is pretty obvious but I use cash for everything when I go out.  If I want to get a coffee or need to pay for parking, I use cash.  I like cash because I don’t run the risk of turning over my credit card (with my male name) to a cashier.  I also bring my debit and credit card just in case. -Proof of car insurance.  If you get into an accident or get pulled over, you’ll need to provide proof of insurance.  Simple enough but plan for the worst. -Fully charged cell phone.  Pretty self-explanatory.  You’ll need it in case of emergency.  Any emergency. -Roadside assistance information.  You need to know who to contact if you get a flat tire.  Sure, I can change a tire myself, but no way I am doing that in a dress or heels. -Driver’s license.  Again, if you get pulled over… -Spare car key.  If you’re not used to carrying a purse, you might forget to place your keys in it.  A spare key tucked in your purse saves a call to a locksmith. -Medical insurance card.  Again, plan for the worst. -A friend.  I don’t mean bring a friend with you, though shopping is a lot more fun if you do, but if you’re out to anyone in your life, drop them a message to let them know you’re stepping out.  It’s good to let someone know you’re out on the town in case you need help. -I would also recommend downloading the Uber or Lyft app.  If you run into car troubles and need help, having this on your phone can be a lifesaver.  I have an app on my phone and I have multiple accounts associated with it.  One for my male life, one for Hannah.  I’ve used Uber as both genders and I’ve never had an issue. Where should you go? Anywhere you want, but plan ahead.  Is there a GLBT friendly coffee shop in town?  Maybe start there.  Or a GLBT bar?  That’s another option.  For your first time out, some of us go someplace where they’re used to seeing girls like us.  It’s important to get used to being out in public and it’s easier if you know you’re not the first t-girl, or the only t-girl there.  If there’s not a place like that in your area, I bet there’s a PFLAG or a Tri-Ess chapter that meets near you. Being comfortable out will take time but you will get there.  I never thought I’d go to a restaurant or a mall or a gas station in heels, but I do it all the time. Not comfortable yet in your area?  Drive to a bigger city.  Get a hotel room there, have an adventure!  Bigger cities tend to be more liberal and open minded than smaller towns.  When I go to downtown Minneapolis, I walk down the street confident in knowing I am not the first or last transgirl to strut that street that day.  Bigger cities have seen girls like us before. Will people see you?  Of course they will.  You’re out in public.  Will they point?  Will they laugh?  Will they whisper behind your back?  Maybe.  But really, so what?  I go out all the time and very, very rarely does anything like that happen.  And the more often I go out, the less I notice it.  Will people recognize you?  Maybe.  If you’re afraid of that happening, again, go to a different town. I know I was nervous people would point and snicker while I was out in the real world, but that hasn’t really happened to me.  I’ve interacted with everyone from baristas to shop clerks to gas station employees to waiters and I’ve never had a bad experience.  No one has been rude or laughed or anything.  The world is a wonderful place sometimes. Safety is the number one concern, of course.  I know what parts of my city are safer and I’m sure you do too so don’t go there.  Go somewhere where you can park in a well lit area as well.  Going out for the first time is nerve wracking enough but going someplace a little iffy is just adding more stress that you don’t need. Looking back, I have only come out to my friends who are LGBTQ, and it’s all gone very well.  Now that I think about it, I have only come out to maybe five friends. Coming out to my mom and sisters were both very different experiences.  I think if I were to do it all over again, I definitely would do things differently.   I’ve written a little about this previously.  But, the short version is that my family loves me, they understand me as best they can and I love them. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah family Ask Hannah! This is the second of the four dresses I wore for my recent photo shoot with Shannonlee. I’ve had this dress for a while and I think I’ve only worn it once.  It’s one of those dresses you rediscover in your closet and wonder why you don’t wear it all the time. I hope you like these pictures! Love, Hannah Uncategorized photos Fall Photo Shoot – Red and Mesh Dress I started doing my makeup about ten years ago.  Over the last decade, my face has changed quite a lot.  The first picture here was from about six years ago.  The second is from last fall.   Yes, I am older but I think I actually look younger in the second photo, mainly due to losing a significant amount of weight between the two pictures.  My face has changed shape and has become narrower and more angular.  I also tend to get dark circles around my eyes that I didn’t get when I was younger. As one’s face changes, a makeup routine will need to adapt as well.  Over the last year or so I’ve been getting a little frustrated with my makeup routine.  No matter how much highlighter or concealer I was using, the darkness would start to show through after a couple hours.  I had tried to contour my face to have a rounder shape to contrast the bonier structure my face had developed after losing weight. I decided to was time to schedule a makeup lesson with Corrie, the owner and incredibly talented artist of Midwest Makeup in the Uptown neighborhood in Minneapolis.  I had a few goals I wanted to accomplish during our appointment. First of all, I wanted to streamline my makeup process.  My routine consisted of color correcting by using red lipstick over my jawline to contrast the blueness that facial hair can create under foundation.  It’s effective…but due to my dark hair I need several layers of foundation to counteract the blueness.  Corrie had introduced me to Dermacolor Camouflage Creme beard cover.  I was really pleased with how effective this worked.  I only needed one layer of foundation to use over the beard cover and my jawline.  I also wanted to find new foundation besides the Dermablend (and others) that I normally use.  Besides the Dermablend, I use liquid foundation, but Corrie introduced to cream foundation and corrector for under my eyes.   Cream foundation is used with a pallet and a pallet knife similar to how a painter would use paint…which, if you think about it, is exactly what one is doing.  I then used a brush to apply the foundation.  I really liked the Groaftobin line of foundation and corrector that Corrie taught me how to use. I wanted to learn contouring to achieve a more oval shape to my face.  It’s widely thought that the “ideal” facial shape is an oval and contouring is an effective way to achieve that.  After watching a lot of makeup tutorial videos I thought I knew how to make this work for my face but I was never happy with the results.  Corrie taught me how to contour MY face.  My face is different than yours, and it’s different than every face in a makeup video.  What works for one face will not necessarily work for another face.  Corrie matched my skin color to a few different shades and showed me how to which foundation shade to which parts of my face.  She showed me how to blend and how blending foundation uses a different technique than blending highlighter. Another goal was upping my eyes hadow game.  This was a lot simpler than I was making it, and I was really happy to learn some new techniques using different colors.   Finally, I wanted to find new brushes to use for foundation, blending and for my lipstick.  No matter how careful I am, I can never achieve a nice smooth defining lip line.  Corrie showed me which brush she uses for lipstick and taught me some helpful tricks. An hour and half later, I was more energized and more excited and confident about my makeup routine that I have been in years.  During the appointment Corrie would work on half of my face and I would mirror her technique on the other side of my face.  She was patient, supportive and talented.  I really feel I know what works for my “new” face, not anyone else’s.   Makeup is one of the most challenging, satisfying things one can learn.  It’s a humbling, empowering skill.  There are times where I feel amazing and times I feel very male.  Although I used the same technique and products for years, I almost always looked different each time I did my face.  It’s not an easy thing to learn, and it’s absolutely worth investing time and money to learn techniques and which products to learn. Love, Hannah Uncategorized makeup minnesota Time To Up My Game! Hey I’m a boy 19 years old.  I want spent some time as a Sexy girl but due to my surrounding people and my image I can’t able to complete my desire. Please suggest something that helps me to full fill my desire to become a girl without knowing anyone. As someone who has been dressing, to various degrees, for decades, I understand needing to be discreet.  For myself, freedom to dress came with age.  You stated you are 19 so it’s not unreasonable to assume you still live at home.  When I had my first apartment I was able to buy heels for the first time and to start building a wardrobe without having to purge it every few days out of fear someone would find the new skirt I bought. I also understand the need to keep both gender identities secret.  I don’t want to be seen at the mall looking at dresses in male mode, so thank goodness I can shop online.  I wish I had that option when I was your age. If you want to keep your dressing a secret, you really have only two choices. -You can get your own apartment.  I understand that is easier said than done, but that’s the reality.  I suppose you could just hide your clothes somewhere in your room where they are unlikely to be found and only dress when no one else is home, but there is still a chance someone will find out. -Get a hotel room and dress in private.  This is expensive and not exactly feasible, but it is a choice. I wish I had more helpful advice.  I will say that it gets better, and easier, once you have a place to call your own. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah crossdressing Ask Hannah! A few weeks ago, The MN T-Girls had our annual photo shoot with the always amazing Shannonlee.  I am in love with these pictures and I hope you like them too!  I will be posting them over the next week or so. Let me know what you think! Love, Hannah Uncategorized photos Fall Photo Shoot – Gold Dress! I had the recent honor of being interviewed by Sister House for their ‘Dressing Room‘ feature.   If you’d like to learn more about my fashion influences and my take on style, please take a look! Love, Hannah Uncategorized clothes crossdressing transgender Interview with Dressing Room! “The Transgender Day of Remembrance seeks to highlight the losses we face due to anti-transgender bigotry and violence. I am no stranger to the need to fight for our rights, and the right to simply exist is first and foremost. With so many seeking to erase transgender people — sometimes in the most brutal ways possible — it is vitally important that those we lose are remembered, and that we continue to fight for justice.” – Transgender Day of Remembrance founder Gwendolyn Ann Smith Sometimes I feel I am risking my life when I step out.  Do you ever feel that fear? Sadly, there are those who have lost their life when they went out.  Nothing makes me angrier than someone getting hurt because of who they are.  Do you ever feel that anger? 2017 has been the deadliest year yet for the transgender community. I am sharing a portion of a post that originally appeared on Human Rights Campaign’s website.  It is a frightening and devastating article to read, but we need to. Sadly, 2017 has already seen at least 25 transgender people fatally shot or killed by other violent means. As HRC continues to work toward justice and equality for transgender people, we mourn those we have lost:  Mesha Caldwell, 41, a black transgender woman from Canton, Mississippi, was found shot to death the evening of January 4. The murder is still under investigation and no suspects have been arrested. Sean Hake, 23, a transgender man in Sharon, Pennsylvania, died after he was shot by police responding to a 911 call from his mother. A friend told WKBN that Sean “had a genuinely good heart and he had struggled with his problems.” Jamie Lee Wounded Arrow, 28, an American Indian woman who identified as transgender and two-spirit, was found dead in her apartment in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. A suspect, 25-year-old Joshua Rayvon LeClaire, has been arrested and charged with murder and manslaughter in connection with her death. JoJo Striker, 23, a transgender woman, was found killed in Toledo, Ohio, on February 8. Striker’s mother, Shanda Striker, described her as “funny and entertaining” and said her family loved her deeply.  Tiara Richmond, also known as Keke Collier, 24, was fatally shot in Chicago on the morning of February 21. A transgender woman of color, she was found dead on the same street as two other transgender women that were killed in 2012.  Chyna Gibson, 31, a Black transgender woman, was shot and killed in New Orleans on February 25. Chyna was a much-loved performer in the ballroom community who was visiting friends and family in New Orleans at the time of her death.  Ciara McElveen, 26, a transgender woman of color, was stabbed to death in New Orleans on February 27. McElveen did outreach for the homeless community. As of February 28, 2017, HRC has tracked at least nine murders of transgender people in Louisiana since 2013. Jaquarrius Holland, 18, was shot to death in Monroe, Louisiana, on February 19. One friend, Chesna Littleberry, told Mic that Holland was “like a younger sister” and had helped her learn to accept herself. Alphonza Watson, 38, was shot and killed in Baltimore, Maryland, on March 22. Watson’s mother said her daughter was “the sunshine of our family,” a “caring, passionate” person who loved cooking and gardening. Chay Reed, 28, a transgender woman of color, was shot and killed on April 21 in Miami. Reed’s longtime friend told Mic about their longtime friendship — describing her as someone who was full of life and beloved by many. Kenneth Bostick, 59, was found with severe injuries on a Manhattan sidewalk, he later died of his injuries. Few details about Bostick’s life have been reported, he is believed to have been homeless at the time he was attacked.* Sherrell Faulkner, 46, a transgender woman of color died on May 16, of injuries sustained during an attack on November 30, 2016 in Charlotte, North Carolina. Police are treating the assault as a homicide. No arrests have been made at this point. Kenne McFadden, 27, was found in the San Antonio River on April 9. Police believe she was pushed into the river, which runs through downtown San Antonio. A high-school friend of McFadden described her to local media as assertive, charismatic and lovable. No arrests have been made, but police said they have a person of interest in custody.   Kendra Marie Adams, 28, was found in a building that was under construction and had burns on her body on June 13. Police have charged Michael Davis, 45, with Adams’ murder. Adams also went by Josie Berrios, the name used in initial media reports on her death. Ava Le’Ray Barrin, 17, was shot and killed in Athens, Georgia on June 25 during an altercation in an apartment parking lot. In an online obituary, friends remembered Barrin as a “social butterfly” and an “amazing girl” who “loved to make people laugh.” Ebony Morgan, 28, was shot multiple times in Lynchburg, Virginia, in the early morning of July 2. Morgan was transferred to a local hospital where she succumbed to her injuries. Authorities have named Kenneth Allen Kelly Jr. as a person of interest in the case.   TeeTee Dangerfield, 32, a Black transgender woman, was shot and killed on July 31 in Atlanta, Georgia. According to the Georgia Voice, Dangerfield “was found with multiple gunshot wounds outside of her vehicle at the South Hampton Estates apartment complex.” Gwynevere River Song, 26, was shot and killed in Waxahachie, Texas, on August 12. According to their Facebook profile, they identified as “femandrogyne” and a member of the bisexual community. Kiwi Herring, 30, was killed during an altercation with police on August 22 during an altercation with her neighbor. Relatives told Huffpost the neighbor was transphobic and that excessive force by police led to her death. Kashmire Nazier Redd, 28, was fatally stabbed by his partner on September 5. A friend wrote on Facebook “[Kashmire] loved hard and just wanted to be loved and [accepted].” Derricka Banner, 26, was found shot to death in Charlotte, North Carolina on September 12. Friends describe Banner as a “playful spirit” and “go-getter” who enjoyed life. Scout Schultz, 21, was shot and killed by Georgia Tech campus police on September 16. The GT Progressive Student Alliance, a progressive student advocacy group on campus, called Schultz an “incredible, inspirational member of our community and a constant fighter for human rights.” Ally Steinfeld, 17, was stabbed to death in Missouri in early September. Three people have been charged in her murder. Steinfeld’s family said Ally “sometimes” identified as female on social media.  Stephanie Montez, 47, was brutally murdered near Robstown, Texas. Montez’s longtime friend, Brittany Ramirez, described her as “one of the sweetest people you’ll ever meet.”  Candace Towns, 30, a transgender woman who was found shot to death in Georgia. Town’s friend, Malaysa Monroe, remembers Towns’ generosity. “If I needed anything she would give it to me. She would give me the clothes off her back,” Monroe said.  When we lose a member of our community, it reminds me of how important it is that we keep going out.   To remain visible in the public.  To be in our communities.  To be understood.  To be tolerated.  To be accepted.  To be loved. We will get there.  I hope. Do you ever feel that hope? Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender Transgender Day of Remembrance This month marks the four year anniversary of the MN T-Girls! I remember the very first MN T-Girl meeting at Cafe Southside in Minneapolis.  I arrived a little early and wondered if anyone would show up.  But a few people did, and now, 4 years and a whole lot of eyeliner later, the group is still going strong with close to 200 members.  When I started the group, I had a goal of helping other t-girls find the courage to go out, have fun, make friends and experience life outside of their living room.  I also wanted to help us become visible to the rest of the world.  To show people that we are real and are more than how we are portrayed in movies. I’d like to think that these goals are being accomplished.  At almost every monthly event, there is usually at least one t-girl out for the first time.  Almost all events are out in public, whether at the mall, in a restaurant or museum.  I am also seeing increased tolerance, acceptance and love from the real world.  Whether it is the group being invited for a private shopping event, a play or simply someone telling me that they love my dress. I like looking back at how things have evolved, and I also like to celebrate!  Yesterday was the monthly MN T-Girls outing and it was truly special.  Yesterday’s event was actually comprised of three separate moments.  The first was an amazing combination of our history and of our future.  The University of Minnesota recently unveiled an exhibit documenting the history of the transgender and non-gender conforming community with a special emphasis on Minnesota’s role and community.  The exhibit, titled ‘In Their Own Words’: The Tretter Transgender Oral History Project  is an amazing collection of literature, newspaper articles, photographs and interviews.  I was excited to see the exhibit and thought it’d be interesting and important for the MN T-Girls to visit.  I think history is so important.  I have the freedom to walk through Target in heels but I can’t forget those activists who fought for this freedom. Typically, the museum is not open on the weekends, but thanks to the U of M’s kindness, they opened for our group for a special weekend showing.  I cannot thank the U of M enough for their flexibility.  What made the visit extra-extra-extra special was our tour guide was Andrea Jenkins, the curator of the exhibit and the first out transgender person of color elected to public office in the United States!  Jenkins will represent Ward 8 on the Minneapolis City Council next year.    I learned a lot about our history, such as when the term ‘transgender’ was first used, how different ethnic groups have had multiple genders for a very long time, and how the U of M was the second university in the United States to perform a gender reaffirmation surgery.  It was an amazing exhibit and I am still stunned by the courage of those who came before us.  Again, special thanks to Ms. Jenkins and the U of M! We had dinner reservations but there was a little time to kill before then.  A small group of us went to Midwest Makeup Supply in Minneapolis to do a little shopping.  The MN T-Girls had a private makeup event there earlier in the year and it’s always fun to visit.  After the exhibit and shopping it was time to eat!  We had a wonderful meal at PUBLIC kitchen + bar in Saint Paul.  We had dined there two years ago and like last time, we had delicious food and wonderful service.  I can’t wait to go back! It was a fun day and I cannot thank Andrea, the U of M, Public and Midwest Makeup enough for helping make the day special.  I also want to thank every member of the MN T-Girls for helping the group grow and making the group what it is.  Onto the next four years! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls Four More Years!` This month marks the fourth anniversary of the MN T-Girls.  As time passes I tend to look back more and reflect on how much things have changed, how far things have progressed or, in some cases, regressed. At its heart, the MN T-Girls exists as a social and support group.  I wanted to create a group that socialized, that went out and did everyday things, such as having a nice dinner or going to the mall.  It is a group where one can feel safe when going out into the real world.  Many of us felt a mixture of emotions the first, or even the fiftieth time we left the house presenting as the gender we identified as. I knew those emotions because I felt, and sometimes still do, feel them.  For years I was afraid to leave the house.  What was I afraid of?  A million things.  Afraid of my car breaking down and being stranded somewhere.  Afraid of being recognized, afraid of being harassed, threatened, laughed at, or worse. I was afraid I was not beautiful. There is a vague, unattainable goal of “passing” for some in our community.  Passing is when we, as transwomen, are seen as cis-women.  Although I can have flawless makeup and wear a beautiful dress, I still have wide shoulders, large hands and a deep voice.  In short, I have many physical characteristics that are normally associated with men.  Some of us want to pass because it’s validation and confirmation that our presentation is so amazing that most people would think we were born as females.  Some of us look at passing in a desire to be unrecognizable to people that we know who might see us.  Some of us just want to pass because it means we are as beautiful as the gender we identify as. But passing is unattainable and vague, and it’s unattainable because it is so vague.  There is not a set of standards that one has to meet in order to be female, or to be beautiful.  Yes, I am tall (I am even taller in four inch heels), and height is often viewed as a male characteristic and thus “gives me away”.   But I have met cis-women who are taller than me.  I have met cis-women who have deeper voices than myself.  I have met cis-women with facial hair. Are they not women because of those characteristics?  What decides what is feminine?  Who decides what is beauty?  Who decides who is beautiful? No one. Well, you do. It’s not for anyone else to decide.  Once I realized that there was no such thing as passing, that there is no standard I had to meet in order to be beautiful, then my whole world change.  I was ready to go out. I was still nervous about the same things as before, with the exception of not feeling beautiful enough.  Instead of striving to pass, I wanted to blend in.  I did my best to blend in the first time I went out, which was about six years ago.  I was still learning makeup but my confidence was growing with each day.  I was tired of sitting around my living room and was ready to get out into the real world.  So, one Friday morning I woke up, did my makeup, got dressed and left the house.  The photo on the left is what I wore when I went out for the first time…a cute skirt, a colorful top, cardigan and black stockings.  I thought it was a perfect outfit for running errands.  For the next few months, I picked out outfits that, in my opinion, helped me blend in.  Blending in, I thought, was a form of protection.  There are those who have a fear and hatred of people who identify as transgender, and I didn’t want to draw a lot of attention to myself, lest I became a target for ridicule, violence, or worse.  Blending in became a sort of camouflage, in a way. As I went out on a more regular basis, I realized that the world wasn’t as scary as I thought it would be.  If I was being laughed at and pointed towards, I didn’t notice it.  People were kind to me.  People complimented my outfit or the skill I had when it came to walking in heels.  My confidence grew.  My self-esteem grew.  Blending in, in those early days, gave me an opportunity to experience life as incognito as possible, considering I am a six foot tall (and taller in heels) transgirl. As my wardrobe grew, I noticed the clothes I was buying were reflecting my growing confidence and courage.   I was buying less clothes that I felt helped me blend in and more clothes that, in the corner of mind, I would wear in public when I felt bolder.  It would take another year or so until the outfits I wore outside of the house moved from blending in to being bolder.  My wardrobe was expanding and was soon filling up with bright colors, bold patterns, higher heels and skirts that showed off all the hard work I put into on the Stairmaster at the gym. Then one day I was done blending in.  I am not sure what triggered it, perhaps it was a beautiful day, or a new dress I couldn’t wait to wear.  Soon I was at the mall, at the art museum, getting makeovers and having coffee wearing dresses that I never thought I’d have the courage to wear in the real world.  Dresses with bright patterns, eye-catching designs and flowers.      A LOT of flowers.   I remember the day I wore the outfit pictured above. I was feeling particularly bold that afternoon and opted for a bright, tight pink dress with matching pink heels.  I looked at myself in every mirror I saw at the mall that day and marveled how it didn’t seem that long ago when I tried so hard to blend in, to not be noticed.  This outfit was about as far away as incognito as one could get. These days I no longer try to blend in.  There’s not much in my closet that I am not comfortable wearing.  Of course, I still believe in dressing appropriately, I am not going to wear my leather dress and five inch stilettos to the grocery store, for example.  Looking back at these photos and remembering the past few years, I am amazed at the confidence I’ve gained in such a short time.  One of the reasons I formed the MN T-Girls was to show other transwomen that the world can be scary at first, but it’s really quite wonderful once you are out in it.  I understand the need and instinct to want to blend in, but standing out is liberating and amazing.  You may be surprised by how the world reacts and even embraces you.  There is a hashtag that I saw the other day that reads #wearwhatscaresyou and I really like that idea.  The idea of wearing a bright pink dress with sky-high heels terrified me a few years ago, but it’s one of my favorite outfits.  To me it screams confidence. Wearing what scares you is a big step, and it took me a couple years to gain the confidence that I needed to do so.  But, like wearing high heels, it takes baby steps.  Getting a little push doesn’t hurt either.  I remember going to Pride and having to stop at the grocery store beforehand.  I was wearing a bright pink, polka dot dress to the festival and walking into the store wearing such a eye-catching outfit was a little scary at first.  The dress was perfect for a hot summer day at Pride, but very bold for a grocery store visit at 6:30am.  However, doing that was one of the little pushes I needed. If you’re looking for a push, you may want to consider ‘Try-Day Friday’, a challenge that was started by Dia & Co, an online clothing company that provides their customers with new outfits that are designed to create confidence and help take fashion risks. Despite many things happening in our country, I am feeling optimistic for our community.  We are making progress, socially and politically.  It’s not always been easy, but baby steps, you know? I am also excited about your growing confidence.  Yes, yours.  Do something that scares you, wear something that scares you. Love, Hannah Uncategorized clothes transgender Wear What Scares You Yay!  From Fader: In July Danica Roem became the first openly transgender person to run for the Virginia House of Delegates. Tuesday night, having won that race, she became the first openly transgender person seated in any state legislature in the country. For her run at the slot, Roem campaigned against incumbent Bob Marshall, a Republican, who had held the seat since 1992.  And that’s not all!  Also from Fader: Shortly after Roem’s race was called, it was announced that in Minnesota, Andrea Jenkins became the “first out trans woman of color elected to public office in America,” according to the press secretary for the Human Rights Campaign. Both Roem and Jenkins were preceded by Althea Garrison who, in 1992, served one term in the Massachusetts state legislature though she was not out at the time. What a wonderful night.  I think the transcommunity needed a victory like this. Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender Two More Steps Forward! Tonight I had the pleasure once again speaking at the Minnesota Transgender Alliance meeting.  Last month I spoke at the Minneapolis chapter and this evening was the Anoka group.  I spoke about the MN T-Girls, my experiences in being transgender in the Twin Cities and, of course, shopping.  Thank you to everyone with the Minnesota Transgender Alliance and for everyone who attended! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls I Sure Like to Talk! Hi Hannah love reading your articles would you know a group in U.K. or person like yourself xxx Thank you!  There are many transgender support groups all over the planet and a quick Google search provides a few resources.   Mermaids Mermaids is passionate about supporting children, young people, and their families to achieve a happier life in the face of great adversity. We work to raise awareness about gender nonconformity in children and young people amongst professionals and the general public. We campaign for the recognition of gender dysphoria in young people and lobby for improvements in professional services. The Beaumont Society  The Beaumont Society was founded in 1966 as a self-help and social organisation for transgender people. We are still here, over fifty years later, in a very different social climate, with a broader membership but with the same aims. We became a charity in 2010 to enable us to meet those aims more effectively. Transfigurations Transfigurations is a transgender support group based in the South West of the UK.  It was set up to help all trans people (transsexual, transvestite, intersex, genderqueer, trans youth etc.) come to terms with their gender identity and provide a safe meeting place whilst they explore their feelings.   Stonewall We’re here to let all lesbian, gay, bi and trans people, here and abroad, know they’re not alone.  We believe we’re stronger united, so we partner with organisations that help us create real change for the better. We have laid deep foundations across Britain – in some of our greatest institutions – so our communities can continue to find ways to flourish, and individuals can reach their full potential. We’re here to support those who can’t yet be themselves. I am certain there are thousands of trans people in the U.K., but I don’t know anyone personally.    You may want to create a profile on The Gender Society, a UK based transgender forum and start there. If you are looking to meet others like us, or if the above groups aren’t quite what you’re looking for, you may want to consider starting your own group.  That was the reason I started the MN T-Girls.   There are many transgender support groups in Minnesota, however I wanted to find a group that emphasized the social aspect of who we are.  I wanted to make friends and go shopping and out to dinner but I didn’t know of a group like that…so I started one. I wanted to make some friends to go shopping with and to have a coffee with once in a while.   As Hannah, I am very social.  I like to do things with other people, I like to talk and socialize so I decided to make some friends. I had started attending a local crossdresser support group and I met a lot of really wonderful people but I didn’t really identify with them.  Most of the group were those who had transitioned or who were about to.  It was a terrific support group for those who needed that support more than anything else.  Me, I just wanted to make a friend to hit the mall with. Creating, organizing and maintaining a group like this is a challenge and can be frustrating at times.  But it is also very rewarding and fun.  it takes a lot of patience and professionalism and dedication.  It takes commitment.  It is a lot of hard work.  It takes a lot of my time.  However, through the group I’ve been able to do many amazing things and I am constantly looking for new adventures for us. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah Ask Hannah! From the Minnesota Daily: The University of Minnesota unveiled an exhibit documenting the history of the transgender and gender non-conforming community on Thursday. The exhibit, titled “In Their Own Words’: The Tretter Transgender Oral History Project,” is on display at the Elmer L. Andersen Library. A celebration was held for the exhibit, which included an announcement about the project’s future. “I just want to highlight why it is so important that we tell our narratives at this time while we are still alive,” said Andrea Jenkins, oral historian of the transgender oral history project. “Because in 2017, 23 transgendered people … primarily transgendered women of color [have] been murdered.” This sounds like a really amazing exhibit.  I definitely plan on going.  Here are the details of the exhibit: The exhibition is open October 13, 2017 through January 31, 2018 Elmer L. Andersen Library Atrium Gallery Exhibit hours: Monday, Tuesday, & Friday | 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Wednesday & Thursday | 8:30 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. More information here! Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism minnesota transgender In Their Own Words: The Tretter Collection Transgender Oral History Project I know I can only speak for myself, but in conversations with other t-girls, it seems one of the many things we have in common is that we have always been who we are, as far back as we can remember.   Who we are, what we want to wear and be only grows as we get older. No one outgrows this side of us.  So many of us thought we would stop doing “this” when we hit certain milestones in our lives.  Whether it was becoming a teenager, becoming an adult or even getting married.  But the truth is that we will always be who we are. Which is wonderful, actually, since there’s nothing wrong with who we are. As I hit my teen years I grew bolder and more accepting and understanding (and forgiving) of who I was.  I started buying clothes for myself in my teens and purging them a few days or weeks later.  When I moved into my own apartment at age 20 I started to build my wardrobe.  I still purged but it took longer than it used to.  I didn’t purge because I thought I would or could outgrow this, rather I purged because I was terrified of being caught. When I started the MN T-Girls almost five years ago, I really had no idea who would be members, but I expected t-girls from a variety of age groups.  Today the members of the group number in the hundreds and although I haven’t met everyone yet,  I would estimate that over 90% of the group are in their 40’s or older.  This surprises me. Most members have discovered the group by googling “Minnesota” and “crossdresser”.  My site is the first option that pops up.  When I was in my teens and the internet was in the early days, the first thing I searched was the term ‘crossdresser’.  I was amazed at how many results the search provided.  It also affirmed my belief that I was far, far from the only one like me out there.  My thinking was that as others like us hit their late teens and early 20ths that they would want to reach out to others like themselves. When I started the MN T-Girls, I had thought there would be many members in their early 20’s joining the group as that was the age that I had started to grow bolder and wanting to meet others like myself.  But that’s not really the case and I often wonder why.  I would have loved to have found a group like the many that exist today in the Twin Cities at that age. I have two thought on this. My first thought is that perhaps a support or social group is just not needed.  I started the group because I wanted to connect with others as Hannah.  I wanted to have friends as Hannah.  There are very, very few people in my life that know me as both of my genders.  I had wanted to expand this number but for various reasons I don’t see myself coming out to anyone else in my life.  In a recent survey, more U.S. teens than previously thought are transgender or identify themselves using other nontraditional gender terms, with many rejecting the idea that girl and boy are the only options.  This aligns with the thought that perhaps the younger generation does not feel the need to seek out support for others like them because they are finding the support within their own current social circles.  If their friends and peers are accepting of those who identify as transgender, then the need to find support may not be as strong.  I often think that if more people in my male life knew about Hannah, I may not have needed to start the T-Girls.  But I’m glad I did. My second thought is that coming out as transgender is still terrifying for many of us and it’s still easy to think that no one would understand or accept who we are, regardless of a survey indicating that more youth are identifying as gender non-conforming.  Those in their late teens and early 20’s just simply many not be ready to reach out.  As much as I would have moved to have joined a group like the MN T-Girls or attend a PFLAG meeting when I was younger I probably would not have been ready to do so.  Although the support and acceptance from one’s peers may be there, there is also more media attention and laws that specifically target the transgender population than ever before.  Almost every day there is a news story about a high school and the issue of which bathroom a transgender teenager is allowed to use.  Far too often there are reports about a transperson getting ridiculed, hurt or worse for simply being who they are.  There may be more acceptance, but there is also more vocalized hate than ever before.  From that perspective, it’s not a surprise that more of us are not coming out. But these are just my thoughts.  I would love to hear from others on this topic, especially from those in their teens or late 20’s. Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing transgender T-Girls – The Next Generation Today was the monthly MN T-Girls outing and we had an amazing time as we held our annual photo shoot.   This was the third year that we were treated to such an incredible day thanks to Shannonlee of Fotodia Studios.   I have been working with Shannonlee for a few years now and she is always just wonderful to work with.  There were a total of six of us getting our portraits taken.  We had a lot of wardrobe changes and the day was filled with the sound of high heels clicking on hardwood floors.  It was a day none of us will forget anytime soon.  Thanks to Shannonlee for such a perfect day.   Love, Hannah Uncategorized mn t-girls photos Lights and Cameras for the MN T-Girls! A few weeks ago, I wrote about how California was considering a third gender option to their state issued identification cards.  Over the weekend, California Governor Jerry Brown did exactly that. Not only that, there is also Senate Bill 179 which, according to Huffington Post, also reportedly makes the process of an individual changing their gender on legal documents easier by no longer requiring a statement from a physician declaring that they’ve undergone “clinical treatment.” So, any readers in California thinking of making this change on their identification cards? Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender The Gender Recognition Act I had the honor of speaking at last night’s meeting of the Minnesota Transgender Alliance in Minneapolis, whose mission is to provide resources and support to all members of the transgender community.  I talked about creating and organizing the MN T-Girls, my experiences as a transgender girl in the Twin Cities, the responsibility of being a positive representative of the transgender community, and the importance of being honest with ourselves about who we are. I met some amazing people and I was grateful for the experience.  I look forward to partnering with the MNTA more in the future.  Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism minnesota mn t-girls The Minnesota Transgender Alliance Do they have books on transgender, crossdressers rights when we go out on the town? Before I jump into this, please visit and bookmark these two links that provide answers and information to frequently asked questions regarding the laws and rights of transgender individuals: ACLU Human Rights Campaign I’m sure there are books, however, with how frequently the laws can change, a book will eventually become outdated.  As far as I know, there aren’t any states that says it is illegal to be transgender.  But that doesn’t mean we don’t have a long time to go.  As of today, it is legal to fire someone on the basis for being transgender in over half of the states in the country.  According to the Human Rights Campaign:  Right now in 32 states there is no state law protecting transgender people from being fired for being who they are. Only 18 states (CA, CO, CT, DE, HI, IL, IA, MA, ME, MD — effective Oct. 2014, MN, NJ, NM, NV, OR, RI, VT and WA) and D.C. currently prohibit discrimination based on gender identity. We all have rights, but each day we hear of someone’s basic civil rights being violated.  Discrimination based on gender and race will likely always exist.  You have the right to be treated as a human being, but that doesn’t mean everyone will respect you and interact with you in the way you deserve, unfortunately. You should also be aware of what the laws in your state are when it comes to using the restroom that align with your gender identity.  According to the ACLU: There’s no clear answer here because very few courts have considered this question and the results have been mixed. In two recent positive decisions, an administrative agency in Colorado in 2013 and the Maine Supreme Court in 2014 both ruled that under those states’ gender identity discrimination laws, transgender girls had the right to use girls’ restrooms at their public schools. On the other hand, a 2001 Minnesota Supreme Court decision found that even a law prohibiting gender identity discrimination didn’t necessarily protect a transgender woman’s right to use the women’s restroom at work. And a federal appeals court in 2007 upheld the Utah Transit Authority’s decision to fire a transgender bus driver, based on a claim that her employer could be sued for her use of women’s public restrooms along her bus route. In a non-workplace context, a New York appeals court ruled in 2005 that it wasn’t sex discrimination for a building owner to prevent transgender people from using gender identity-appropriate restrooms in a building where several businesses shared restrooms. Authorities in some jurisdictions (e.g., Colorado, Iowa, Oregon, Washington State, San Francisco, New York City, and the District of Columbia), however, have specifically said that denying transgender people the right to use a gender identity-appropriate restroom violates their nondiscrimination laws. Some jurisdictions (e.g., Iowa, San Francisco, and D.C.) go farther and make clear that transgender people can’t be required to prove their gender to gain access to a public restroom, unless everyone has to show ID to use that restroom. Other jurisdictions (e.g., Chicago) continue to allow businesses to decide whether a transgender patron may access men’s or women’s restrooms based on the gender on their ID, which may or may not reflect accurately the person’s gender identity. Many businesses, universities, and other public places are installing single stall, gender-neutral restrooms, which alleviate many of the difficulties that transgender people experience when seeking safe restroom access. Some cities (such as Austin, Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., and West Hollywood) have local laws that require single-stall public restrooms to be labeled as unisex. While this is often a useful step towards addressing the concerns of transgender people and others, the ACLU believes that transgender people should have the right to use restrooms that match their gender identity rather than being restricted to only using gender-neutral ones. My advice is to use a gender neutral bathroom if possible.  There is also an app and website called Refugee Restroom that, according to their website: REFUGE is a web application that seeks to provide safe restroom access for transgender, intersex, and gender nonconforming individuals. When the Safe2Pee website passed out of functionality it left a hole in our hearts. REFUGE picks up the torch where Safe2Pee left off and makes the valuable resource available to those who find themselves in need of a place to pee safely once again. Users can search for restrooms by proximity to a search location, add new restroom listings, as well as comment and rate existing listings. We seek to create a community focused not only on finding existing safe restroom access but also looking forward and participating in restroom advocacy for transgender, intersex, and gender nonconforming folk. Be aware of your rights.  Be safe. Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism Ask Hannah Ask Hannah! Today is National Coming Out Day and I wanted to congratulate everyone who has bravely come out to someone in their life.  Who we are is not easy to explain or understand.  Sometimes I think we have a hard time understanding this ourselves…but we still know who we are. When we are ready to come out, we open up to different people in different ways.  Sometimes it goes wrong,  sometimes it’s anti-climatic, sometimes they already knew, and sometimes we just have a hard time explaining ourselves to others.  Sometimes this is a conversation that takes months, sometimes the person we come out to never wants to discuss this ever again. If you’ve come out to someone, what has worked?  What did you say that describes who you are so perfectly that the other person understands exactly who you are? Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender National Coming Out Day This is the final set of pictures from my most recent photoshoot with the fabulous Shannonlee. About seven years ago, when I made the shift from under-dressing to actual clothes, I was drawn to evening wear and beautiful gowns.  I was, and still in love with flowing evening gowns…but dresses like that are rather expensive so when I started building my wardrobe I started with little black dresses.  I was insecure and timid when I started to wear dresses and black is a pretty forgiving (and slimming) color.  It was a few years before I felt confident to wear bold colors and patterns. At one point I owned about a half dozen LBDs but when I lost weight I dropped a few dress sizes and they didn’t fit anymore.  I think this is the only black dress I have in my wardrobe these days. I hope you like these photos.  Shannonlee did an amazing job of capturing a side of me I always wanted to see.  Thank you for indulging me over the past few weeks as I showed what may have seemed like an endless stream of photos.   Love, Hannah Uncategorized photos Little Black Dress It’s been a hard week.  Most of our attention these past few days has been focused on the horrific events that occurred in Las Vegas on Sunday.  As the shock fades, our country returns once again to gun control laws and the never ending discussion of our rights and the government’s obligation to protect its citizens. This is not an invitation to discuss gun laws, so please be mindful of that in the comments. A country’s obligation and role in protecting its people extends in many different ways.  Whether it is protecting our personal rights, having access to proper medical and mental care, as well as ensuring our civil rights are maintained. This week we saw the Trump administration roll back the mandate that employers provide insurance coverage for contraception based on religious freedom.  This, of course, will open the door to other discriminating changes that are also based on religious freedom, potentially rights that protect the LGBTQ community. What does this have to do with the transcommunity?  Well, everything. I think most of us here believe that transwomen are women.  Issues that affect cis-women are also issues that transwomen should be concerned about as well.  While it is true that reproductive issues may not affect a transwoman personally, we should be outraged when any right of any woman is denied, especially when it comes to one’s healthcare.  If we want to be viewed and accepted as women when we visit the mall in a cute dress and heels, then we must also champion for the rights of ALL women. If the GOP wants to deny healthcare to cis-women, whether directly or indirectly, then they will not hesitate to take away the protection of transwomen.  Which brings me to my next point. If you had any doubt that the Republicans hated us, this week also saw the Trump administration end workplace protection for the transgender community.  Unless it’s in an effort to be needlessly cruel, I do not see any point in going out of your way to take away a civil right from us.  This week was a busy week for this administration as they somehow also found time to request a federal court to dismiss a lawsuit challenging Trump’s ban on transgender people in the military.  One would think that escalating tensions with North Korea, hurricane recovery in Puerto Rico and mass shooting in Las Vegas would take more precedent than stripping away the rights of women and the LGBTQ community. Things were going, well perhaps not well, but things were less terrible for us not too long ago.  What happened? Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender It’s Been a Busy Week for Hate This is one of the oldest dresses that I own.  I bought it about five years ago and it…well, it shows off my legs nicely and is perfect if I don’t have to sit down for a while.  I wanted to wear it for my recent photoshoot with Shannonlee mainly because of the incredibly perfect heels I found a few years later. Love, Hannah Uncategorized photos Itsy Bitsy Polka Dot Dress Over a few years I have manged to separate and trim down my brows.  But as I get down to shaping them to be more femme I am getting nervous.  Any advice on how to create nice brows and not over do it?  I like to keep my eyebrows well maintained.  It drives me crazy when they look unruly as the stray hairs start to grow back.  There’s really no getting around it that if you do start to shape, thin and/or arch your brows that they will look more feminine.  I get my brows threaded (google or youtube it), but you can also have them waxed.  If you decide to have a professional groom your brows, tell them what you want.  When I get my brows down, I ask the technician to clean them up, but I can also ask them to define them, shape them and thin them…either by a little or by a lot.  I would recommend visiting with a professional and telling them you’d like a little more shape to them, but not to overdo it.  They are professionals and trust me,  you won’t be the first man to ask for a little definition in your brows. However, the truth is that most men do not groom and trim their eyebrows, so it’s quite likely yours will be noticed when in male mode…but its not very likely that anyone will say anything.  How often do you discuss someone’s eyebrows with them? If you do not want to trim or arch them, you can also cover them up with a really good foundation and use an eyebrow pencil to define them. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah makeup Ask Hannah! For my recent photoshoot with Shannonlee, I wore mostly dresses with the exception of this outfit.  I really like wearing this skirt and top combination, but I am not sure how I look in it.  I almost think my shoulders are too wide.  But that’s okay, because I feel cute in it.   I have a hard time putting together outfits around a skirt, so I am happy when I see a mannequin displaying a cute skirt and top outfit to give me inspiration. Love, Hannah Uncategorized photos Thank You, Mannequin at H&M Yesterday was the monthly MN T-Girls adventure and it was an unforgettable afternoon!  The girls visited Midwest Makeup Supply in the Uptown neighborhood of Minneapolis for a day of beauty, makeup lessons and shopping.  Midwest Makeup Supply is owned and ran by Corrie, a rockstar in the Twin Cities makeup world.  She does everything from bridal to special effect makeup to drag makeovers.  She also does complete gender transformations and will soon have a new photography studio in the Saint Paul area.  This was our second visit as a group to Midwest Makeup Supply and it was just as incredible as the first.  Corrie started the afternoon with three different makeup demonstrations showing us everything from color correcting/beard cover, highlighting, and contouring.  Corrie then moved onto teaching us how to have fuller lips using liner and lipstick and some tricks for our eyebrows.  I learned so much about everything from finishing sprays, foundation to primer to bronzer. After the demonstrations were over, it was time to shop!  Corrie and Nico helped us all pick out the right foundations, powders, eye shadow, makeup brushes and everything else.  After we all maxed out our credit cards we went across the street for dinner at ‘It’s Greek to Me’.  In addition to amazing food we were also treated to incredible hospitality and were made to feel very welcome. Huge thanks for Corrie and Nico and to all the t-girls who came to the event.  I can’t wait to play with my new makeup! Love, Hannah Uncategorized makeup minnesota mn t-girls Lights, Camera, MAKEUP! Hi Hannah.  Really have enjoyed reading your advice.  I love to dress, but have to keep it an absolute secret.  How do you approach that?  Try to just ignore feelings, or do things like wearing panties under clothes?  Any thoughts would be appreciated. If there is one thing that over thirty years of crossdressing has taught me, its that this…desire, need, urge, call it what you will, will never go away.  This is who you are.  You cannot outgrow this, you cannot quit this,  you cannot deny this is who you are and what you want to wear. I don’t think ignoring this part of us is useful.  Nor do I think it is effective.  I  believe if this is who you are, then you should let yourself be yourself.  I understand that this needs to be kept a secret.  I keep this a secret from almost everyone in my life but I still feel I can be myself.  I know some t-girls who dress up just a few times a year.  Sometimes they take a vacation and spend time as their other selves in a different city.  I know some girls who just check into a hotel for the weekend and dress up and never leave their room.  You just have to find a way to make it work.  It depends on how far you want to go.  For some, wearing a skirt while watching television is all they want.  There are those who just want to underdress.  For some, they want everything from the tips of their false eyelashes to the point of their stiletto. Of course, you’ll want to consider who you are keeping this a secret from.  If you are married or in a committed relationship, I don’t think you should be deceptive.  I hope you can find a way to tell your significant other about this part of you.  It will, of course, likely come as a shock, but you will inevitably get caught, regardless of how careful you are, or think you are.  I hear stories on a fairly regular basis from crossdressers who were caught by their significant other and not only did they have the discussion about crossdressing itself, there was the additional issue of their partner being lied to.  If you told her you were on a business trip when you really spent the week visiting a different city and trying on heels, she will likely feel betrayed and deceived…because, quite honestly, you lied to her.  It will takes years for a relationship to recover from feeling deceived, if it recovers at all.  I think many partners are hurt more about being deceived than about the dressing itself.  I may have made a lot of mistakes in my life, but one thing I did right was telling my wife about myself after only a few months of dating.  I had to.  This is who I was and she deserved the truth. I hope this helps!  Be safe and be honest. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah crossdressing Ask Hannah! There’s a certain joy that comes with finding a pair of heels that perfectly match a dress you already own.  I picked up this dress about two years ago and last year I found these heels that seem to have been made for it. This was the first outfit I wore during my recent photo session with Shannonlee. Hope you like these pictures! Love, Hannah Uncategorized photos Black and White Girl Hello I am a 24 year old who crossdresses. I am passable and I have a female friend (We grew up next door to each other and are only children) so she is like a sister to me. She has asked to be maid of honor in her wedding next summer. However she wants me to begin immediately living full time as a female so I am prepared for all the wedding stuff. She has offered a place to live and a job what do I do. Thanks. I receive a lot of emails and from time to time I get a message along the lines of “…my wife’s best friend moved away and she misses having someone to go shopping with.  Now my wife wants me to live as a woman so she has a girlfriend again.  What should I do?”  My suspicion is that many of those messages are fake.  I think there are some crossdressers who are…intrigued, let’s call it, at the idea of someone else taking charge of their gender identity.  Perhaps there are those who want to dress/transition but taking comfort in the idea that it was the idea of someone else.  I am not sure, I cannot answer that question.  When I was in my teens I read anything I could about crossdressing and for a few of us, this is a fetish, fantasy or a sexual turn on.  There is a lot of fiction written about someone being crossdressed by someone else.  “I don’t want to be a girl but my aunt is making me dress up” or “I lost a bet and now I have to be a cheerleader” are popular themes. I never was a fan of not being able to make your own decisions about who you are or what you wear.  For some, the above question is the ultimate fantasy.  Someone supportive in our lives, the chance of being a maid of honor and the offer of living full time as a woman.  I’m not one to say what fantasies one is allowed to have.  That’s the point, they are YOUR fantasies.  I am also not questioning the legitimacy of this email, either. My point is that your gender identity is YOUR gender identity.  It is your decision and not one that can be maid by anyone else.  It is entirely up to you if you want to transition, dress up for a day, a month, a year or forever.  Please don’t let anyone make this decision for you.  Living full-time is a drastic life change and not a choice one should make at someone’s else request, nor should it be made lightly. I would encourage you to seek out a gender counselor or therapist, join a support group, talk with your doctor and loved ones to determine if this is truly the direction you wish to go. Best of luck! Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah crossdressing transgender Ask Hannah! I had quite a few outfits during my recent photo shoot with Shannonlee, and I think this is the prettiest dress that I own.  I love how these turned out. Love, Hannah Uncategorized photos Glittering in Gold Today the MN T-Girls had a little road trip and went to Saint Cloud which is about an hour north of the Minneapolis/Saint Paul area.  Saint Cloud held their annual Pride Festival this weekend and I am so glad we went.  Everyone we met was friendly, positive and welcoming.  There were vendors from organizations from all over the state and I spent a lot of time chatting with Transforming Families and the Minnesota Transgender Alliance,  which I have added to the Transgender Resources page.  There was a total of six MN T-Girls there today and we had a lovely time wandering around the booths, eating yummy food, making new friends and taking photos.  It was supposed to rain afternoon but as you can see it was a lovely day.  It was such a fun day and next year I plan on going to many more Pride events.  Hope to see you there! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota transgender MN T-Girls Hit the Road! So, the gender, or rather, lack of gender, identification term of non-binary has been popping up in the media a lot more often lately. Non-binary is the term that describes individuals that do not identify as neither male or female.  This is different than gender fluid which, as defined by the Urban Dictionary is “a gender identity best described as a dynamic mix of boy and girl.   A person who is Gender Fluid may always feel like a mix of the two traditional genders, but may feel more boy some days, and more girl other days. “ As someone who thinks about gender a lot, especially when it comes to gender roles and how (some of) society will impose, enforce and expect certain behavior and clothing depending on the gender we’re presenting as, I am fascinated by non-binary people and how society and the legal system are reacting. California is considering adding a third gender option to their state identification cards.  Newfoundland is set to hear a case for birth certificates with a non-binary option,  and Canada will now allow gender-neutral passports for non-binary residents. Traditionally, gender is assigned at birth, but obviously gender can change not only legally but also physically and emotionally.  Sometimes my gender can change throughout the day.  They say gender is what is between your ears, not your legs. I am thrilled to see such progress made, or at least considered for those who identify as non-binary.  Any acceptance, legal or otherwise, is positive news for all of us who may not identify with traditional gender roles. Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism A Third Option Here’s another set of photos from my recent photo shoot with Shannonlee! This is a very fun dress to wear and reminds me of the rockabilly styles from the 1950’s. Hope you enjoy these pictures! Love, Hannah Uncategorized photos Rockabilly Girl If I sent you my pic would you give me your honest opinion if I would be passable to walk out? I would never tell someone if they did or did not pass. I don’t believe in passing. I believe in confidence.  I believe in loving how you look.  “Passing” and loving how you look and feel are two completely different things. When I walk through a mall wearing my favorite dress and heels I feel *amazing*.  I don’t care what anyone else thinks. What do I care if someone thinks that I am not beautiful? What do I care if someone knows that I am transgender?  It doesn’t affect me in the slightest. Who decides if you pass or not? Who has the right to decide if you look feminine enough? What does that even mean? Women, whether trans or cis, all look different. Some cis-women are tall, have broad shoulders, hands of all sizes and have different facial features. Holding ourselves to a certain standard means that we have expectations as to what a cis-woman “should” look like. Here’s the reality: Some cis-women have large hands. Some are taller than men. Some have deep voices. Some have facial hair. Does this mean they don’t “pass”? Of course not. All cis-women are women (if they choose to identify that way, of course), all transwomen are women, no matter how anyone looks. You are beautiful. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah crossdressing Ask Hannah! The MN T-Girls will be taking a road trip this month to Saint Cloud’s Pride weekend!  There are events all throughout the weekend, from theater shows on Friday, Saturday’s Pride in the Park and drag show, to a Sunday brunch.  The T-Girls and I will be at Pride in the Park.  I hope to start attending more of Minnesota’s pride festivals and I am excited for this! If you plan on going, drop me an email!  I’d love to meet you! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls transgender Saint Cloud Pride! I think we all remember our first photograph.  Although we likely stared in the mirror for a long time after we dressed or wore makeup in the early days, seeing a photograph is an entirely different experience.  Sometimes the photos make your jaw drop as they capture a side of us we always wanted to see…but sometimes the photos are humbling and can trigger a downward spiral as we realize we don’t look quite as how we imagined, or hoped. But what we do takes time.  It takes patience.  It takes practice.  We often need a mentor.  Creating ourselves and being comfortable with who we are can take a lot of effort.  The picture of me in the white dress was taken about six years ago.  I remember how happy it made me when it was taken, but as time passed, I realized how far I had come whenever I looked at the early photos. If you’ve spent even just ten seconds on this blog, you’ll see that I obviously love having my photograph taken.  I was fortunate enough to partner with an amazing photographer, Shannonlee, a few years ago and she is so much fun to work with.  In addition to working with such a fun and talented artist, the photos are a reminder of how far I’ve come…as a result of hard work, patience, exercise and building confidence and how it can pay off.  To me, the photos are less about how I look, but more of a reminder of how I feel about myself.  I feel happy, confident and assured.  I have come a long way from needing validation in the early days.  The girl in white dress looks insecure, guarded and although she’s smiling, she’s unsure of herself.  She has the heels, but missing confidence. Confidence is everything.  Whether you are a t-girl or not, it’s confidence that gets us through the day, helps keeps our head held high as we strut through the mall or make eye contact with those who stare at us.  Confidence helps us ask the makeup artist to recommend a foundation for our skin tone, confidence helps us ask the sales clerk if they have that cute red pump in a size 12 in the backroom. I recently had a photoshoot with Shannonlee and I am thrilled to post the first of the pictures.  These photos are of me in a dress I purchased earlier this summer from Long Tall Sally.  It’s a little short and the slit makes it even more risque, but I don’t spend two hours a week on the Stairmaster to cover up my legs.   I hope you like these photos!  I’ll post more throughout the week. Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing photos transgender Capturing Confidence The Super Bowl is in your town this weekend. Are you a football fan? Do you plan to wear a football themed outfit to watch the big game? I was wondering why there was so much more traffic this week!   I am not a football fan, so I am not planning on watching the Super Bowl.  But even though I am not a Vikings fan, I still wear purple on occasion.  I am proud that Minneapolis is getting a lot of attention at the moment, though.  I think we have an amazing city for many reasons.  It’s a very progressive city that has a lot of resources and support for our community.  In November Andrea Jenkins became the first out trans woman of color elected to public office in America.  The University of Minnesota also recently curated an exhibit documenting the history of the transgender and gender non-conforming community.   If you’re in town for the game I hope you enjoy our city and I promise you that it’s not normally this cold. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah minnesota transgender Ask Hannah! A few weeks ago I did another photo shoot with the fabulous Shannonlee.  I wanted to share some of the photos from that day.  More are coming!  I love how these turned out.   My makeup was done at Rita Ambourn in Saint Paul.  I absolutely recommend scheduling an appointment with them.  The results were amazing!  Love, Hannah Uncategorized makeup modeling photos New Photos! Today the MN T-Girls had our monthly outing.  It was a dreary, rainy Saturday and we spent the day at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts looking at beautiful artwork.   We’ve been to this museum before and we’ve always had a wonderful time.  If you haven’t been, or planning on visiting Minneapolis, I highly recommend making a trip here.   It’s easy to lose yourself in such a massive building and before we knew it, two hours had passed.   It was time for an early dinner and we had a wonderful meal at The Lowry in Uptown.  We have been to many restaurants in the last few years but this was one of my favorites. It was a wonderful way to spend a rainy day.  Thanks to everyone who came and I look forward to our next adventure! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls A Day at the Museum I step out at least once a month, and almost every time I go out I am told by a cashier, a barista, another shopper, or someone simply passing by in the mall that they love my dress.  These compliments have all been from women. This makes my day, obviously.  Everyone loves a compliment and I am flattered by not only the kind words but also touched by the fact she went out of their way to say so. I started to wonder if this was a common exchange, though.  Do women normally compliment complete strangers on their outfit?  I started to listen to conversations at the store, the checkout lane…anywhere I could to see if women offered compliments out of the blue to other women.  I would hear the occasional “I love your blouse” or “cute haircut”, but these exchanges were not very common. Now, I am not saying that my sense of fashion is better than anyone else.  That’s not the point.  I do not think I receive, or deserve, compliments any more often than anyone else. I started to wonder if “I love your dress” was…well, if it was code in a way.  If it’s a way of saying “I support the transcommunity” and “You are welcome here”.  The more I hear this, the more certain I am correct.  I believe that in the current climate where the transgender community is more out than ever, more politicized, more scrutinized and more visible than ever, that this is a way of saying they are an ally. I hope I’m right.  I would rather have someone identify themselves as an ally rather than complimenting me on my outfit. Of course, they can do both.   Love, Hannah Uncategorized Love Your Dress! I am a beginner crossdresser.  Please tell me how to chose my dresses. Creating your wardrobe is one of the most fun and expensive things you’ll ever do.  It will be even more expensive if you don’t purchase clothing that is the right size.  It’s important that you know your measurements and understand that the size on the tag doesn’t mean very much as each designer and store can have a different meaning of what a size is. So, how do you find your measurements? Find a measuring tape (not the tool kit kind, the ribbon kind) and take your measurements for different parts of your body: -Waist measured at your belly button -Bust measured at nipple height with or without forms/padding -Chest measurement taken just under pectoral muscle (2 to 3 inches below nipple)  I have a section on my blog that goes into more detail about shopping and sizing.  Read that section here. The internet makes it very convenient to purchase and ultimately return clothing if it doesn’t fit.   It’s important you refer to the size charts on the store’s site in order to choose the right items.  I found a really cute dress on Amazon recently, but I know from experience to look at the size chart. Here’s a typical screenshot from Amazon:  Under the price, you can choose the size you’d like, as well as view a size chart.  This is a standard Amazon size chart and is rarely relevant.        I ignore this.  Usually on the left side of the screen, among the alternate views, you’ll see the manufacturer’s size chart and will vary from dress to dress.  This is usually more accurate.  I also will scroll to the bottom of the page and read the customer questions and reviews to see other shopper’s opinions.  I normally wear a size 12 or a large (unless it’s stretchy, then I go down to a 10), but according to this chart I am a size XL. Taking a few moments to do you research will save you time and money. Happy shopping! Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah crossdressing Shopping transgender Ask Hannah! Hey Hannah,   How accepting is your family?   Are they accepting and you can be Hannah around them?   Or do they not want to see it.  Coming out as transgender can be challenging to our loved ones.  My family is accepting, supportive and are definitely advocates of the LGBTQ community.  However, regardless of how much of an ally you are, it can be difficult when someone you love comes out.  Identifying as transgender can add additional questions to our loved ones.  I’ve written before how being transgender can mean something different from individual to individual.  Some of us have transitioned, or want to transition, and for some of us it’s never crossed our mind.  Accepting a family member as transgender isn’t easy, but there is also the additional question of what it means to them and possibly what’s next for them.  My family knows they can go shopping or have a cup of coffee with Hannah whenever they’d like, but I don’t press anyone with this part of me.  I have also written previously about how I think it’s important we try to be conscious of who we are to our loved ones and be gentle and considerate when we come out.  Of course, if we waited for everyone we know to be “ready” to meet us, we may never get to be ourselves.  I also am speaking as someone who does not want to live full-time, so it’s easier for me to accommodate my dual genders and the rest of my life.  I realize everyone’s needs and lives our different, and can only speak for myself.  Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah family transgender Ask Hannah! I was surprised to get an email on Thursday stating my blog was named one of the Top 100 Transgender Blogs on the web.  You can see the entire list here, my blog comes in at number 51. All silliness aside, I am stunned and honored and humbled to be recognized, especially considering the other blogs on the list.  Thank you to my readers! Love, Hannah Hannah sitting pretty at spot 51 Uncategorized transgender It’s a Major Award I have been very lucky to have met an incredibly talented photographer two years ago.  Shannonlee, of Fotofida has taken more photographs of me than I could count.  She’s done my modeling photography, photo shoots for the MN T-Girls, as well as those times when I just wanted some new photos taken. Last week was one of those times. I booked a photo shoot with Shannonlee and spent a wonderful four hours with her taking pictures at Casket Arts, a beautiful building in Northeast Minneapolis.  I packed some outfits and high heels, and after an outstanding makeover at Rita Ambourn, I was ready for my photo shoot.  I had a wonderful time.  My face hurt from smiling and I cannot wait to see the photos.  I wanted to share some pictures from the day  I hope you like them!     Love, Hannah Uncategorized modeling photos Still Smiling for the Camera I love these quasi-holidays, like Pink Day last month.  Today is National Lipstick Day and I thought it’d be fun to learn about your favorite lipstick.  I fell in love with MAC’s Liptensity Lipstick recently, particularly the BRIGHT RED Mulling Spices shade.  I pair it with their Kiss Me Quick lipliner for a really bold look. What do you like? Love, Hannah Uncategorized makeup National Lipstick Day! I am sure you all heard the news regarding our president’s tweet regarding how transgender individuals are banned from serving in the military. Thankfully tweets are not executive orders and according to Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman, General Joseph Dunford, “There will be no modifications to the current policy until the President’s direction has been received by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary has issued implementation guidance”. Why this president does anything is beyond my comprehension, but the reasoning behind this statement relates to the financial burden that a transgender soldier would put on the American people. First of all, this statement is not accurate.  According to The Atlantic, “The military has not historically covered gender-transition surgeries”.  The article cited goes on to explain that if the military did cover such operations, “That cost would be between $2.4 million and $8.4 million annually for transition-related costs, according to a RAND analysis commissioned by the Department of Defense. The group estimated there are between 1,320 and 6,630 active-duty transgender servicepeople currently. A study in The New England Journal of Medicine in 2015 put the number at 12,800 people and $4.2 million to $5.6 million, concluding that “doctors agree that such care is medically necessary.” This would be a military health-care spending increase of 0.04 to 0.13 percent. Even in the most extreme case, it is one tenth of the annual $84 million that the military spends on medication for erectile dysfunction. Having a world leader make such inaccurate and damaging statements is scary enough, but this perpetuates the belief that transgender people are a burden of any sort, as well as the belief that all transgender people want to transition and undergo surgery. This is disheartening, especially when it seems to me that we have made such large strides in the last few years and a statement like this just knocks us back. There’s not much we can do to stop people with a Twitter account making such inaccurate and misleading statements, but there’s always something we can to fight back against stereotypes and hatred. We can sign many of the petitions online demanding that any such bad would be reversed. Although signing a petition may seem like it has little impact it is encouraging to see so many people supporting our community. We can donate to Outserve.  OutServe-SLDN is the association for actively serving LGBT military personnel and veterans. We are a non-partisan, non-profit, legal services, watchdog and policy organization dedicated to bringing about full LGBT equality to America’s military and ending all forms of discrimination and harassment of military personnel on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. I am not making being transgender political.  Politicans are.  We just want to live our lives and not have our basic human rights diminished.  Being transgender, I believe, means being obligated to fighting back against hatred and stereotypes.  How anyone can be transgender and Republican in this political climate is beyond me.  How one can stand by an organization that, intentionally or not, makes such damaging statements is beyond my comprehension.  I know that standing by a political party is more than just its opinion on one issue, but this statement was damaging, wildly inaccurate and hurtful. Being trans is a huge part of who I am.  I make decisions on where to eat and shop based on their stance on the LGBTQ community.  I will never eat at Chick-fil-A, for example.  Supporting an organization that has such a low opinion of who I am is not deserving of my money, my time or my vote. Your perspective may vary. Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender Transgender Ban in the Military I have been crossdressing for about 5 years, but I want to take it to the next level, going out in public dressed as a women.  I have been out as a women but only to gay bars or other places like that.  I wear a wig, padded bra, dress , nylons, high heel shoes, necklaces, and clip on earrings.  My problem is that I do not know how to apply makeup, so I need to meet other crossdressers to get some tips or do a makeover.  my question is, how do I meet other crossdressers?  Thank you for your time in answering this. Hi!  Talking to other t-girls and crossdressers is certainly an option when it comes to makeup, however I have learned more about makeup by talking to makeup artists and having makeovers. Facial shape and facial structures are wildly different from person to person.  Talking to a makeup artist will be beneficial as they are trained to contour, highlight and reduce certain facial features (if you want) and to help you do your own makeup.  No two people do their makeup the same way.  Learn what is right for you.   There are some tricks I learned from other t-girls, specifically when it comes to color correcting and beard cover but I learned so much more by meeting with makeup artists and being taught which makeup is right for my skin, tone and color.  My advice is to schedule a makeover and ask a lot of questions.  I have some suggestions where you can go on my blog. As for meeting other girls, I would recommend creating a profile and chatting online at various forums, such as crossdresssers.com and urnotalone.  When I wanted to meet others like myself I started the MN T-Girls, so you may want to consider starting your own group. Good luck, have fun, be safe! Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah crossdressing makeup transgender Ask Hannah! I’ve gotten quite a few emails lately about people questioning their gender identity.  Someone may love to wear dresses, but does that mean they are transgender?  How often, and to what degree to you “need” to step outside of traditional societal gender norms to be “allowed” to be transgender? First of all, there is no such thing as not being trans enough.  There’s no qualifying exam. Got it?  Good.   It was explained to me a few years ago that the term ‘transgender’ is a big, fabulous umbrella that can cover a wide variety of gender identities and that when someone does something that is outside of stereotypical gender norms that are usually associated with the gender that is assigned as birth that it falls under being transgender. So, a big tough construction worker that wears panties?  Transgender.  A 20 year coffee shop barista that paints his nails?  Transgender.  Someone who spends two hours on their makeup and selecting an outfit and styling their wig to hit the mall?  Transgender. Being transgender is a hard thing to explain as it can cover quite a wide spectrum.  We may all be trans, but my trans-ness is likely different than yours.  Sure, Laverne Cox is transgender and so am I, but there’s a world of difference between she and I.  I highly recommend watching this little video that nicely summarizes many of the terms that our community has.  Thanks to Jennifer for sending this over. Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender A Big Fabulous Spectrum From City Pages:    Looking for the loudest possible way to support transgender health issues in Minnesota?          Head to Triple Rock Social Club any Tuesday this August. That’s where Surly Brewing Co. is sponsoring “The Gay Agenda,” a free punk-rock residency to benefit Minnesota Transgender Health Coalition. Pints of Surly — Furious, Hell, and Xtra-Citra — will be discounted to $3.50, and a percentage of those sales will go to MTHC. You can also expect ticket giveaways for future T-Rock gigs.  Musically, here’s what’s on tap during “The Gay Agenda”:   August 1: Fucking Cowards/Dirty Junk August 8: New Primals/Moodie Black August 15: Starchild/Nugazi: That Fugazi Cover Band Experience August 22: Former Worlds/Speedweed August 29: Kitten Forever/Royal Brat  The month-long “Gay Agenda” residency kicks off each Tuesday at 9 p.m. Click here to RSVP on Facebook.  Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota transgender Trans Health and Punk Rock! We have all experienced challenges with shopping at one point in our lives.  Whether it was selecting accessories that best complimented a dress, putting an outfit together, determining our correct size(s) or simply working up the courage to set a foot (high-heeled or otherwise) into a store. I cannot tell you how much money I’ve spent over the course of my life in purchasing the wrong size of something.  Working up the courage to talk to a salesperson in a store has changed my life, not only in expanding my wardrobe but also in overall change in my confidence.  In my experience salesclerks have been extraordinary helpful and have gone out of their way to help. However, I have to say I have never had an experience like the shopping experience I had yesterday.  Last night the MN T-Girls had our monthly outing and we were treated to a private shopping event by the wonderful staff at Long Tall Sally in the Mall of America.  Long Tall Sally is a clothing boutique that carries clothes designed for women 5’8” and taller (up to size 20) and sells shoes that range from 10 – 15.  Basically, it’s a haven for girls like myself.   Shopping can be an intimidating event as we’ve all needed to work up our courage to simply start building a wardrobe but also in navigating a new world of sizing.  However Wanda, Cindy and Kiersten couldn’t have been more amazing.  The event started after the store closed to regular shoppers and for the next two hours they helped us find clothes, put outfits together and helping a few of us buy their very first pair of heels.   The event was a success on so many levels  There were about 15 of us and we all had an amazing time shopping, talking, trying on clothes and meeting new friends.  I fell in love with two dresses, one of which is perfect for Saturday night, the other perfect for Sunday morning.  I will let you decide which is which.  I really want to thank the members of the MN T-Girls who come to shop and have fun, and I really want to extend my thanks and appreciation to Long Tall Sally and their incredible staff.  It was such an amazing night and the staff provided incomparable service and an unforgettable experience.  Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing minnesota mn t-girls Shopping Long Tall T-Girls Everyone is different.  We all know that.  Even if we’re the same, there’s things about the things that make us the same that make us different.  You and I may both identify as transgender, but we are different in our trans-ness. Are you still with me?   Some of you are on a journey.  Perhaps a year ago you were working up the courage to try on a pair of heels, but these days you are on hormones and working on your name change documents.  I don’t think I am on a journey anymore.  I think I am at the end of my journey and have arrived at who I am and will be for the rest of my life.  I enjoy being able to go between genders when I feel like it.  I don’t want to commit to one gender.  I don’t want to transition.  I never wanted to. That being said, when we come out to others in our life, who we come out to may have a flood of emotions and thoughts.  The internet is a wonderful tool and we all turn to it when we need something.  It’s entirely likely who we come out to will google terms like ‘transgender’ and ‘crossdress’ and receive a lot of information.  Not all of it is helpful, of course.  Looking up information on crossdressers online can easily give someone the impression that it’s a fetish or a sexual turn-on.  And it very well may be for some of us, but it’s not the case for everyone. Thanks to the abundant information online, it’s not uncommon to think that everyone who identifies as transgender will eventually transition.  It can get exhausting coming out to someone as we have a need to not only explain who we are, but we also have the additional work of pushing back against some common misconceptions of who all trans people are.  “Yes, I am transgender.  No, I am not gay.  No, I don’t want to transition.” Years ago, I came out to a friend who only knew me as a male.  She was supportive and happy for me and it was a relief to have that kind of response.  I wanted her to know Hannah as well.  It’s hard not to feel like I am a different person when my lips are bright red and wearing heels, you know?  A few weeks ago the two of us went out to dinner so she could meet me for the first time. I wondered how dinner would go.  I was meeting my friend who I have known for twenty years as a male but this was a new experience for her.  There’s very, very few people who know me in both genders.  I am out to very few people in my life but very few of them have met Hannah.  I needn’t have worried.  Dinner went wonderfully.  She used my preferred pronouns and called me Hannah. It was embarrassing to be wearing the same colors as someone else at the same restaurant. After dinner I drove home and thought about how important it is to be understood.  Yes, there are things that all people who identify as transgender have in common, but I felt that it only took an hour for her to understand who I am.  She knew more about me over one dinner than weeks of internet research could provide.   The internet will teach you about what being transgender means, but the internet can’t teach someone about who YOU are. This is not meant to knock the internet, of course.  The web has some amazing resources for people like us, and for people who are in our lives.  I’ve written before about being considerate of those we come out to, but when others start getting to know us, really getting to know us, we must be considerate of what they are experiencing.  It can be a shock seeing someone they have known for decades wearing a dress.  Not all of us have people in our lives who want to meet our other halves.  If you’re lucky enough to have someone who wants to meet “her”, please be gentle and considerate. Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender Meeting Our Other Halves Many of us feel we have this burden, this weight we carry around.  We have a secret about us that we don’t get to talk about.  When we do talk to someone, when we let someone in on our secret, many of us feel as if a weight has been lifted.  We feel free, the burden is lightened.  It’s like exhaling.  We have someone to confide in, we hopefully have found someone who is supportive, or at least, hopefully found someone who won’t think we’re…weird. But the truth is, the weight may have been lifted from our shoulders, but the weight is still there.  We feel better, but the person we confide in carries that weight now.  We confide in others at the hope and trust that they will not tell others, but any secret can be a burden to someone.  Especially something like this.  The people we confide in will likely have questions, they may need someone to talk to about our reveal.  I know when I came out to my wife she often wished she had someone she could talk to about me.  Yes, I felt better when I came out, but she carried that weight. Not only can the weight be transferred, it can often be shared.  If I am nervous about going out, whether is because of being seen by someone I don’t want to be seen by or possibly being hurt by someone else, those fears are now the fears of the person we confide in. I write this because I want us to acknowledge the burden we can put on a person when we come out to them.  It’s easy to overwhelm someone with everything we have been thinking, feeling and even wearing for years.  If we have never spoken to someone about this, many emotions can come pouring out, like a dam breaking.  We have been discovering, and often times creating who we are for many years.  We have had a long time to come to terms with who we are.  When we come out to someone, it hits them all at once. I don’t know if there is a right way to come out to someone.  I know there are plenty of wrong ways.  I feel it’s wrong to wait to come out to someone until after you’re married.  Many of us have tried or hoped this part of us would go away after we got married, but THIS NEVER GOES AWAY.  We are who we are and there’s nothing wrong with who we are.  But we need to be honest with ourselves and we need to be honest with our future spouses. Before you come out to someone, I would recommend talking to someone who will understand, such as a gender therapist or joining a transgender support group.  Pflag is a wonderful place to start.  I would also recommend being prepared to offer some resources to the person you come out.  Again, Pflag is an excellent resource. I wish I knew how to tell you how to come out to someone.  I have come out to a few people in my life and some have gone well, and some have not.  I realized that you cannot come out to everyone the same way.  I know we want to be accepted, I know we want to be understood. I know we want to be loved. Please, be gentle. Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender The Weight of the World I guess it’s National Pink Day, so I hope you all are celebrating! Love, Hannah Uncategorized Happy Pink Day! Last night was the monthly outing for the MN T-Girls and like each month, it was filled with girl talk, making new friends and support.  We’ve had a busy 2017 so far with going out to dinner, shopping, makeup demonstrations and other exciting events so I thought it was a good time to have a quiet evening at Blue Moon Coffee Cafe in Minneapolis.  The weather was rainy and gloomy which helped add to the perfect conditions for spending time drinking tea and coffee with friends.    Thank you to everyone who came, whether in boy-mode or just-had-a-makeover-mode, t-girl or supportive family members. Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls transgender MN Tea-Girls! I had a feeling, almost a premonition, that something interesting was going to happen when I went out yesterday.  I started by picking out my outfit, a white dress with a floral pattern and matched it with a pair of nude pumps as seen in the photo to the left.  But at the last second I replaced it with a hot pink dress and matching stilettos as shown in the photo below. My makeup looked good.  My mascara made my eyelashes so long that they cast a shadow on my face.  My lipstick matched my outfit.  Whatever was going to happen, I was going to face it by looking fabulous.  I was going to meet up with a friend for dinner and I had some time to kill so I went to the mall.  I popped into a few stores and then as I rounded a corner, I saw her. I saw my mom. I came out to my mom a few years ago, when I still identified as a crossdresser.   I still identify as a crossdresser but I feel transgender is more appropriate.  It was a surprise to her and although my mom is a wonderful person and supportive of the GLBTQ community, she wasn’t prepared for this revelation and it didn’t go as well as I had hoped.  But I think I could have explained myself better.  I think had I explained what it meant for me to identify as trans as opposed to me wearing dresses and heels it might have gone differently.  I think when I started to identify as transgender instead of a crossdresser I went from “this is what I like to do” to “this is who I am”. I was excited for her to meet Hannah.  I wanted  very much to go shopping with my mom, to meet for coffee.  To be a daughter, even if only for an afternoon.  But it wasn’t meant to be.  She was glad I was honest with her but wasn’t ready to meet Hannah. Over the next few months, we had a few more conversations but I didn’t feel they were going anywhere.  I soon gave up on the hope of her meeting Hannah.  It would still hurt from time to time, however.  I knew my mom loved and accepted me, but I couldn’t help feeling sad that there was this part of my life, another half of my life, that she didn’t want to know.   I could have pressed, but I respected her feelings. Lately it has been on my mind, though.  I wondered if enough time had passed for me to broach the subject again.  When I considered this, most of the time I decided to drop it.  When I didn’t decide to drop it, I wondered how to do it, and ended up dropping it anyway.  But yesterday my mom faced me in the most literal way possible: by running into me at the mall.  Because of course I was at the mall. As we walked towards each other, I didn’t have that sense of panic.  It was more like…what should I do here?  I remembered my mom saying she didn’t want to meet me, but it felt wrong to just pass by her and not say anything.  But I also felt like this was my chance.  It was meant to be. After the initial shock, we got to chatting.  Small talk, how the week went, what was coming up later on in the month, my sisters, weekend plans.  I am sure running into Hannah was the last thing she expected to happen on her Saturday trip to JCPenney’s but my mom bounced back well and was comfortable, chatty, friendly and just…normal.  It didn’t feel weird or tense. We ended up walking around the store and talking for about 20 minutes until she was off on her next errand.  In the parking lot I told her that I knew she didn’t want to meet me and that I was sorry it happened.  I am not sorry for who I am, but I respected her decision to not meet me.  I told her that this afternoon was something I had dreamed of for a very long time.  I let her know if she ever wanted to go shopping or have a coffee that I would love to meet up with her. I was surprised at how emotional I was when I told her this. We said our goodbyes, she told me she loved me (as she always does when I see her) and she hugged me.  Do you know how long I’ve wanted her to hug Hannah? I walked back to the mall and immediately texted my wife.  After I told her what happened, we exchanged this:  My evening went as planned and later my wife called my mom just to check in with her now that she met me.  My mom was supportive and talkative, had some questions for my wife and was very encouraging.  I suppose ten years ago I never thought I would have had a day like yesterday…having a wife who is supportive, having the confidence to go out, having the courage to tell my mom and for my wife and my mom to chat about my gender identity on the phone. I never really thought what occurred yesterday would ever happen and who knows if she’ll ever see me again.  Yesterday life became a whole new world for myself and for my mom.  It was full of new.  I mean, how often does your mom meet you for the first time? Love, Hannah Uncategorized family marriage transgender So, This Happened… Sometimes I am amazed at our progress.  Sometimes I am amazed at the progress of the rest of the world.  Never did I think we’d live in an age where there were greeting cards designed to celebrate someone’s transition but that is exactly what Hallmark is doing.   Hallmark put out a line of cards in 2015 that went largely unnoticed until recently.  I really recommend reading this article from the Kansas City Star. Thanks to Jennifer for forwarding this article to me! Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender This is Trans-tastic I think many of us fear being caught. I have been wearing heels, dresses and anything else you can name for as far back as I can remember.  Well, maybe wearing isn’t the right phrase, perhaps “trying to wear” is more appropriate.  I recall being as young as four and searching the closet for my mom’s high heels.  Even when I was young, I didn’t think there was anything “wrong” with me, I just liked what I liked.  But I somehow knew my wardrobe preferences should be kept a secret. Until perhaps fifteen years ago, terror and crossdressing went hand in hand.  I was terrified whenever I worked up the courage to go to Target to buy panties at the chance of someone bumping into me.  I was terrified someone would open my closet and see my stilettos.   I was terrified all the time of being caught. After I came out to my girlfriend, whom I later married, the fear went away for the most part.  The person whose opinion really mattered knew all about me and I didn’t need to hide anymore.  I slowly started posting on forums, such as crossdressers.com, soon photos appeared and, well, now I have this website. The fear faded as I grew older and started to realize that it was unlikely I would be “caught”.  As far as I know, I have kept this a secret from everyone that I haven’t come out to.  I don’t have any fear going out at all, either.  I don’t think Hannah looks like male me unless you were close enough, but then again, I may be fooling myself.  But I really don’t think I am. Having this blog and posting photos does open up the chance of being “caught”.  Am I afraid someone in my male life would see it?  Not really.  I don’t think this is the kind of site you just stumble upon.  I think you’d find my site if you were looking for a site like mine.  And if you’re looking for a site like mine, well, you probably understand the importance of keeping a secret. The other day I was thinking about our fear of being caught.  It’s true, I don’t want to be caught, but I was thinking if there’s anyone in my male life that knows about me that I don’t know of.  It is entirely possible that someone has seen me in the mall carrying a Victoria’s Secret bag or at Ulta picking up foundation.  It is possible someone has found my site, either on accident or on purpose.  If someone has see me and are respecting my privacy, then I truly appreciate it. However. If someone does know about me, I really wouldn’t mind if you let me know that you know.  Unless of course you think I am weird or doing something wrong, then you can keep pretending that you don’t know.  But if you know me, if you know the male me, you can tell me.  I don’t like keeping secrets, but we all know how important it is to keep this secret.  If you know the male me and want to meet Hannah, let me know.  She would like to meet you, too. Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing transgender The Fear of Being Caught In my male life, I tend to be a bit of a workaholic.  Even on my days off, I plan projects and errands and things that I need to accomplish.  I have a hard time relaxing.  One of my favorite things about having two genders is that Hannah is very different than my male life.  I had quite a few errands planned for yesterday but it was a beautiful morning and I felt like being as beautiful as the day. I woke up, picked out one of my favorite floral dresses and nude heels and left my house in search of adventure.  I ended up at the Mall of America.  I think for many of us in Minnesota we look visiting this mall as a challenge.  It’s huge, has a ton on people and can be intimidating.  I’ve been to the mall as Hannah before and was excited to return. I arrived at the mall before most stores had opened and enjoyed listening to the click of my heels on the floor as I wandered around having a coffee.  I caught the eye of other shoppers and I did what I always do when someone looks at me, I smiled at them.  And more often than not, they smiled back.  A smile can disarm, a smile can put someone at ease and smiling back when someone smiles at us is a reflex.   There was one lady in particular who just…stared at me and I just kept smiling.  I thought about what she would tell her friends later. “I saw one of those…transgendered people at the mall.” “What happened?” “She…smiled at me”. Yes, we are pretty scary. As I strolled through the mall, I heard someone say “oh, will you look at the model!”  I turned and saw a couple sitting on a bench waiting for a store to open.  I sat down with them and had a wonderful conversation with them.  They were a retired couple from Norway who were in town to meet their daughter who was flying into Minneapolis from Alaska.  We had about a 20 minute chat and my heart grew with happiness.  I stopped in a lot of stores and tried on dresses looking for a new outfit.  I also took advantage of all the giant mirrors.   I had so much fun.  After my recent post I was inspired to try on a few gowns as well.  Look at this dress, could you imagine wearing it at ball?  I had a wonderful adventure at the mall.  I look at my time as Hannah truly as adventures.  I never know what will happen.  Maybe I will find the perfect dress or talk to a retired pastor from Norway.  What I do know is that people are generally very kind and they might look at you as they have never seen a transperson before…and it’s possible they haven’t. It’s impossible and a waste of time trying to determine what people are thinking when they see you.  Regardless of what they think, it can’t affect you.  How you think about yourself is the only thing that matters.  If someone does stare at me, I like to imagine they are thinking “wow, she’s tall” or “what a beautiful dress!” and “how does she walk in those heels?”. People will stare, but mostly they just smile back. Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing minnesota Shopping transgender Hannah’s Adventures in Mall of Americaland Hello, I wanted to pass along some information about a new app called myTransHealth. What is myTransHeath?  Well, from their FAQ section…it connects trans people with qualified, culturally competent providers in their neighborhood. Our location-based search tool offers resources in four categories: medical, mental health, legal, and crisis care. Their perspective is that access to quality healthcare is a crisis in the transgender community. Patients often face discrimination or refusal of treatment due to their gender identity. These experiences disproportionately affect transgender people of color. Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender myTransHealth Last night was the monthly outing for the MN T-Girls and we had such a wonderful time.  Dining en femme was a dream of mine for so long and no matter how many times I dine out, it’s always an incredible experience.  I understand how nerve-wracking it can be, but I have never had a bad experience whether dining alone or with the T-Girls. We dined at Kincaid’s in Saint Paul, a really beautiful restaurant with terrific service and food.  There were a total of nine of us and there were a few girls who were out with the T-Girls for the first time so it’s lovely to meet new friends. Some of us knew each other from previous outings, but for the most part everyone got to know each other for the first time yesterday.  It really is amazing how so many of us have the same experiences and feelings and we are all connected through who we are.  Within minutes we were all chatting as if we were lifelong friends about everything from makeup to family to books.   It has been a busy month for me so I was really looking for ward to getting ready and dolled up and having really yummy food.  I had a chance to wear a new dress I bought back in January on another T-Girl outing and I loved how it looked.  Thank you to Kincaid’s for impeccable hospitality, for delicious food, for always directing us to the ladies’ room and for making us feel welcome.  Thank you to everyone who came last night, see you soon! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls transgender Dining with the MN T-Girls Every year, as the end of spring begins to flirt with the first breath of summer, you see beauty everywhere.  The blossoming of flowers, the bluest sky imaginable and breathtaking sunsets. This time of year you see girls getting ready for prom or to be in a wedding.  This season stirs up the desire to be beautiful, the intense pangs of jealousy.  When I was in high school I would see my female friends at a formal dance and couldn’t decide if I wanted to in love with them or if I wanted to look like them.  It was an intense…awakening, a turning point in my life.  Ultimately I would choose both. This longing to pick out a beautiful gown, to find the perfect heels and to have an amazing makeover doesn’t ever go away.  It’s always there…but it’s never stronger or louder than right now.  I didn’t go to prom when I was a senior, but I wanted to.  I was dating a girl but we broke up a few weeks before the dance.  We had planned to go, and I lived vicariously through her as she recounted her experiences of shopping for the gown she ultimately would not wear.  If I was honest with myself,  I wanted to go to prom as a girl.  I wanted to spend weeks looking for a dress, the shoes and accessories.  I wanted the makeup and hair appointment, I wanted the photos, the going out to dinner at an upscale restaurant, the limo…everything.  I didn’t even want to go with someone, it would have been enough to just go, to be my own date. When my high school days passed I had hopes of being a bridesmaid.  I wanted to experience going dress shopping with other girls, trying on countless gowns…just thinking about it makes me smile. I am lucky to have experienced so many moments as Hannah, but it also hits me on occasion knowing that there are so many things that I likely never will.  I’ve had many makeovers, many photographs taken, and I have a beautiful wardrobe.  But being the most beautiful girl at a gala, in the room, the center of a dance floor, or a wedding photograph feels impossible. I think you all know what I feel. Love, Hannah Uncategorized clothes crossdressing transgender This Beautiful Season From the Minneapolis Star Tribune The city of Minneapolis will add “all-gender” restrooms to its buildings in a nod of support for the transgender community. The $17,000 project will change signs and make security upgrades, such as new locks, at 62 gender-neutral restrooms at 44 city facilities, including department offices, fire and police stations, Public Works facilities and city-owned parking ramps over the next few weeks. The bathrooms will be available for anyone to use, and separate men’s and women’s restrooms will continue to exist. “We see this as part of providing better service overall to members of the public as well as to our own city staff,” said Council Member Elizabeth Glidden, who pushed for the establishment of the city’s new Transgender Equity Council. “We want to make sure people are comfortable going into restrooms.” More here! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota transgender Minneapolis adds ‘all-gender’ restrooms in city buildings Nicole Spencer, MN T-Girl and recently featured in T-Girl Spotlight has kindly shared her experience on her recent road trip to Detroit Invasion.  What is Detroit Invasion?  From their website:  Invasion events take place in January, April, July, and November and involve a variety of venues in and around Detroit. These extended weekend gatherings are designed as purely social events open to all crossdressers, transexuals, admirers, and allies. Participants include visitors from NYC, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Dallas, Saint Louis, Milwaukee, Chicago, Indianapolis, Toronto, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Columbus, Toledo, West Virginia and more, as well as drawing extensively from the large and very active local Detroit and greater Michigan TG community.  We are lucky to have Nicole share her adventures and pictures. Enjoy.  Love, Hannah  I was offered the opportunity to share my most recent travel adventure here.  I accepted. I recently viewed a video of comedian/actor Will Smith talking about fears. He was talking about jumping out of an airplane, not himself specifically, but just “a guy” who agreed with friends to do this fearful act. Why couldn’t this guy sleep the night before the jump?  He was nowhere near an airplane yet.  Why was he afraid when he arrived at the airport to meet his friends.  They weren’t in the airplane yet. Then following the jump, the guy was in a state of euphoria.  I can equate this to my personal history with being a t-girl. I was in the closet. Why was I so scared of “jumping” out the door?  And once I did step out the door…euphoria. The basic message.  Bliss comes on the other side of our biggest fears. So, now, not only do I go out, but I, as Nicole, started traveling.  My travels always start with planning.  Since I don’t travel for business, it’s my personal vacation time being used.  I start a couple months ahead of time by notifying a few friends that I am coming their way and hopefully we will have an opportunity to get together. My most recent travels took me to Chicago and Detroit.  I left the Twin Cities on Tuesday, April 18, 2017.  Why a Tuesday, especially the third Tuesday. Well, after my six hour drive to the Chicago suburb of Arlington Heights,IL, I checked in to my hotel, notified my friends that I had arrived, and started doing my makeup. We’re going out. There is a woman, Rori, owner of Transformations By Rori, who hosts a t-party on the third Tuesday of every month. It’s at mainstream Big Shot piano bar.  I have attended at least six times, maybe a couple more. During the evening, there can be 15-30 t-girls come and go, or stay for the duration.  There’s dinner available, cocktails, and a wonderful piano player for entertainment.  It’s a wonderful social opportunity for girls to meet and get to know other girls.   Wednesday I moved southward.  I had a hotel room in Alsip, IL, an hour from Arlington Heights.  This made my trip to see girlfriends at Club Krave, a small corner bar in Blue Island, IL, a short drive. While the bar may be small, the hearts of the girls who frequent it aren’t.  They welcome me as if I were one of the regulars.  Wednesday night is karaoke night at Krave, so there tend to be 6-12 girls singing any given week. I don’t sing myself, but having met the girls at Club Krave makes me smile.       Two nights down.  Still more fun to be had.  Thursday morning, April 20, I applied my makeup, put on a dress and drove four hours from Alsip, to Dearborn, Michigan.  I had registered to participate for a second time in Detroit Invasion(www.tgdetroit.com).  Invasion is a three night social gathering that is held four times a year.  Don’t confuse this with any transgender conference event.  This one is pure social time…ok, it’s a party, lol.  What it really is, is an experience. Ladies from all over attend…Detroit locals, outstate Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Tennessee, North Carolina, Georgia, Wisconsin,and of course Minnesota(me, lol). And Canada too.   I had the pleasure of sharing a hotel room with Stephanie, a girl from Cincinnati, OH.  She and I had met twice previously. The first time I met Stephanie was when she visited the Twin Cities for business.  She found me on Facebook, asking if there were places where a girl could go out. Not only did I say yes there are, but she allowed me to join her and show her.  Coincidentally, the first thing we did was enjoy a dinner out with Hannah’s MN T-Girls.   First night in Detroit was a meet and greet at a LGBT bar named Adam’s Apple. It’s the starting point for all three nights. Approximately 20 of us then went to dinner at a lovely restaurant called Big Fish.  Delicious!  We then returned to Adam’s Apple for the remainder of the evening.     Friday was a relaxing day. Stephanie and I, along with a third friend, Jamie, went to lunch at a fabulous place called Rosie O’Grady’s.  I love it.  Two trips to Detroit, three meals at Rosie’s, lol. After that, we did a little shopping, including a stop at Janet’s Closet, “a crossdresser’s paradise.”  Friday night’s main event was a pub crawl.  After congregating at the Adam’s Apple, we boarded a bus and made three stops. First was The Whitney, a historical lumber baron mansion turned into a restaurant and bar. A classy place where we were fortunate that they could accommodate a group our size.  We then stopped in an alley.  What?  Yes, basically it was an alley. Cool place though.  Numerous small venues…bars and eateries. We stopped at two bars along there for cocktails.The final stop of the crawl was in Ferndale.  There are multiple clubs/bars in that area within walking distance of the drop point.  I spent my time with numerous friends at Orchid, a dance club. Enjoyed a few cocktails and even danced.  The daytime on Saturday was very low key, casual.  Lingered around the hotel lobby a bit.  Stephanie and I then went to a TGIFriday’s for lunch. A small group of girls went to the Henry Ford Museum compound.  While I didn’t go, I did hear that it is a excellent place to check out.    Saturday night’s main event was a bus trip to the MGM Grand Casino in Detroit. It’s the grand finale of the weekend.  Once through security, we all make our way, parading towards the lounge in the center of the casino as one large group.  I’ve never seen so many heads turn, especially by people who are gambling.  But a minute later, they are all back to doing their thing and we are doing ours, which is enjoying the live band in the lounge and dancing.  Sunday morning, it was breakfast and goodbyes.  One girl was having difficulties getting a taxi or Uber to the bar, where she had left her vehicle the previous night. I gave her a ride to get the vehicle, then headed back to Chicago, where I spent one more night before returning to Minnesota.  1448 miles later, I was home again, needing a vacation from my vacation.  Seven days, six nights traveling as Nicole, seeing old friends and making new friends. And missing my local friends.  What could be better?  Not much in my view.  This is one trip, one view.  But as you read this, I hope you understand something…I was not alone.  YOU are not alone.  Our community doesn’t exist just here or just there.  There are girls like us, friends to be made, all around the globe.  This was just two cities, yet one community.    Hugs to all,  Nicole Spencer Uncategorized transgender 1400 Miles Later The National Center for Transgender Equality is promoting next month’s Transgender Lobby Day and needs our support.  It’s taking place on June 8th and 9th in Washington DC, the same weekend they hold their Pride weekend. If you can go, please go.  If you can’t attend, there are ways to have your voice heard in other ways.  For example, OutFront Minnesota is urging supporters to call their Senators and Representatives. If you go, drop me a line.  I’d love to hear about your experience. Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender Transgender Lobby Day I’ve known Nicole for many years and is probably one of my best t-friends.  I met her on my first night out ever and I am very happy to have gotten to know her so well.  Nicole is probably one of the most famous t-girls in Minnesota; I can’t tell you how many times I’ve had people ask if I know her or found the MN T-Girls through her. I am proud to feature her in T-Girl Spotlight. Nicole’s Story Hi.  I am Nicole Spencer. I identify as transgender. I have known Hannah for a number of years and have attended many of her MN T-Girls activities/events going back to the first one in late 2013.  I thank her for asking me to be part of her T-girl Spotlight series.   I am divorced and have two adult children, 24 and 27, both of whom know about Nicole. Both kids prefer not to see me as Nicole, but accept that I am who I am.  As far as I know, my ex-wife still knows nothing about Nicole.      I started crossdressing at approximately age 10, although I do remember ‘playing house’ earlier than that and occasionally was a female then too. I have always loved high heels. They are my weakness.  Heels are where I started, then worked my way upward as i dressed more adding nylons, then a dress or top/skirt, then the lingerie under the dress, as time moved forward. Finally as I aged even more, I added a wig and makeup. To this day, I most often buy shoes first, then find an outfit to match.  I was in “the closet” for way too long. I didn’t go out in public until Spring, 2009, and that was just to another t-girl’s house for some makeup lessons.  I finally went to a public venue, the Town House Bar in St. Paul, MN, for the first time in July, 2009, at age 46. Since my kids didn’t yet know, going out was both rare and at random times. Things have changed since talking to my kids about my Nicole side. I now go out at least once a week, sometimes two or three times a week. I have Hannah to thank in part for that. Having participated in numerous MN T-Girls gatherings, it’s been a group that has helped me gain confidence and be comfortable with who I am.  It’s helped me “own it.”  I gain more and more confidence and become more comfortable each and every time I go out.  I have also gained friends and supporters from this group.   Online social media has also helped me spread my wings. I have gained a number of friends by socializing online.  I am on Facebook. Thanks to the available communication tools and thanks to people who travel for whatever reason, I have had the chance to meet a number of people in person, starting with a business traveler who happens to be a t-girl. After meeting her locally a few times, I decided that it was time to take to the road. Yes, Nicole travels. Locally, I have been all over the Twin Cities and it’s suburbs.  Getting out of Minnesota, I have taken girl trips to Chicago and Detroit. I have met some fantastic people in both of those cities whom I can now say are friends. I am comfortable in both cities.  One last thing.  Whether you’re new to this lifestyle or have been living it for years, if we happen to cross paths, please say hello.  And if you live in the Minneapolis/St. Paul area or happen to be here as a visitor, please check to see if Hannah is hosting an event.  They are terrific opportunities to get out and be yourself.  Hugs,  Nicole Spencer Uncategorized T-Girl Spotlight: Nicole Spencer Dear Hannah, I came out to my wonderful, selfless near saintly wife of 18 years. She knows what transgender is just not who it is. What I know is that she loves me and that will not change :):):)  It can be delicate for a while. Both of us just letting it digest. This can take overnight or it could take years (this would be a mutual denial) This is my greatest fear. The girl wants out and she wants to be acknowledged. To just go into a holding pattern would be worse then internalizing it.  Support groups? Books? Therapist? ( OK, I have one)  Any advice? -Valerie Coming out to anyone, especially your significant other is probably one of the hardest things we will ever do.  I’m sure it wasn’t easy and I’m glad you did it.  It’s always better for us to come out as opposed to being caught.  I get at least one email a week from a significant other of a crossdresser or t-girl who pour their hearts out because they caught their boyfriend, fiance or husband or discovered their wardrobe.  Many times it’s not about the clothes, it’s about the lying and not being honest with them. I know it’s not easy, but I urge you all to please, please tell your significant other about this side of you before get married or live with each other.  I know it’ll be hard, but you owe it to them. But I digress. When you come out to someone, especially a significant other, it’s easy to let things get out of hand.  For many of us we have kept this part of ourselves secret for so long that it’s a relief to talk to someone about it.  It’s possible we’ve never talked about this to anyone else and soon our experiences, desires and secrets just pour out.  This can be very overwhelming.  The person you came out to is still processing this information and when you add more to it, it can be a lot to take in.  Take it slow. When it comes to what’s next, well, that’s up to you.  What do you want to do?  What do you currently do?  Do you dress at all?  With my wife I did not go from coming out to dressing completely in a couple days.  It took time for both of us to adjust.  It started with her seeing panties in my dresser and her getting used to that.  Then sleeping in a nightgown and so on.  It was about four years after I came out before I was in a dress, makeup and a wig.  I didn’t always make the right decisions during this time and I got lost in the pink fog a lot, but my wife is an incredible person and she was always honest and direct with me with what she was thinking, feeling as well as what she was and wasn’t comfortable with. Don’t be surprised if this is two steps forward and one step back for a while.  Don’t fight her if she asks you to not dress up for a few days…or weeks or around her.  If she sets limits or boundaries, respect and honor them.  You mention you have a therapist, perhaps you may consider a couples session where the two of you attend to discuss this part of you.  She may also need someone to talk to independent of you and I would recommend PFLAG, a wonderful organization that provides, among other things, support groups for our friends and families. Good luck! Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah marriage transgender Ask Hannah! One of my goals is to “fly pretty”,  a term that refers to going on a flight dressed.  I have no fear of doing it, but I have no travel plans on the horizon.  Flying pretty does take a lot of planning and really, there’s no going back once you get to the airport. If you’re thinking about doing this, please watch this video by the TSA, and if you’ve ever flown pretty share your experiences in the comments.  Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing transgender Flying Pretty The monthly MN T-Girls outing was yesterday and you couldn’t have asked for a more beautiful day.  It was a reminder why we are the MN T-Girls, and not, I don’t know, the FL T-Girls.  Days like yesterday are why I live here. A few months ago, we were invited to attend a play put on by the Uprising Theatre Company for a production of ‘Sex in the Dark’, a play focusing on intimacy after transition, but unfortunately the timing did not work out.  Having always wanted to attend a play en femme, I was excited that we were able to attend a performance of their current production ‘Prometheus Bound’.  It was a small group, just myself and two others but the three of us were treated to amazing performances, particularly by Shahd Elkhier.   The crew was wonderful and friendly.  I was really impressed with not only the play itself, but also by the social awareness of Uprising.  I really encourage you to see the causes they champion for. Thank you to Uprising for the invitation, for the causes you support and for a wonderful evening! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls A Night at the Theatre! Is there anyone on the planet that has a bigger, more emotional relationship with clothes than a crossdresser? As far back as I can remember, I remember the pangs of seeing a beautiful dress and just yearning to wear it.  As I got older the feeling just grew.  There was always a longing in my heart when I heard of girls in high school shopping for a prom dress, and later, listening to my friends talk about wedding gowns and bridesmaid dresses. I think every one of us remembers the first time we wore a dress, the first time we walked in high heels, the first time we wore…anything and everything. As I grew up and started to buy my own clothes, I remember the thrill of actually owning my own pair of panties, my first pair of heels.  Of course when I first moved out my wardrobe started to expand…and like many of us, the wardrobe ended up in the trash a short time later.  When we purged we all felt that this was it, we were never going to dress up again.  We could beat this, we could live without this. Of course, we were all fooling ourselves.  It wasn’t long until we regretted the purge or until we were back at the mall, shopping all over again.  I purged more times than I would like to remember.  I have thrown away so many dresses and heels that I regret. When I was in mid-20’s, I realized I was never going to change and I finally accepted that this is who I am.  My wardrobe started to steadily grow over the next few years and then I met the girl I married.  After a few months of dating, I told her about everything.  It was a shock to her but I was glad I was honest with her.  I knew I wanted to marry her and I knew I had to be upfront with her.  A few days before we moved in with each other, I purged for the last time. Of course, it wasn’t long until I started buying panties again, but I was honest with her.  Soon I started to grow a wardrobe again and I never purged again. Until tonight. Kind of. A little over two years ago, I decided it was time to make some changes and I cut back drastically on my drinking, started to exercise more and lost fifty pounds and I have kept it over since then.  I also dropped from a size 20 to a size 12.  I needed new clothes and my wardrobe started to grow again. I cleared out my closet and I wondered what I should do with the clothes that didn’t fit anymore.  I finally found a perfect home for the clothes and I am excited it will help other t-girls.  More on this later. Tonight I sorted the clothes that were going to be donated and it was very emotional.  I found the first dress that I bought years ago when I started my wardrobe for the final time, I found the dress I wore the first night I went out, the skirt I wore when I went out for the first time I went out during the day, the first dress my wife bought for me… I am lucky to have the life, the wife and the clothes I have.  I am glad these clothes will go to other t-girls that will love them as much as I do.   I wanted to take a look back on some of these outfits and reflect on how important they were in helping me become…ME.  These clothes are a part of me and I truly loved them.          Love, Hannah Uncategorized clothes crossdressing Saying Yes to the Dress, the Heels, the Skirts… If there is one thing I want someone to take away from reading my blog is that yes, I know it’s scary to go out for the first (and fiftieth) time.  I know we all wonder what people are thinking, but the point I try to make is that you will never know what people think. For the most part, I have had only positive, or at least unremarkable interactions out in the real world.  I’ve been going out for more than five years now and I almost forget that I am doing something that I used to be terrified in doing.  It’s always fun to go out, but it’s normal these days.  I’ve gone from “I’m going out into the real world and I better have my guard up” to “I’m going out into the real world and I need a coffee.” That’s good, right?  That being said, my guard is always up, it needs to be, but having my guard up is second nature and I don’t even think about it.  It’s just…always up.  I’m always breathing, my guard is always up. I’ve said before that what someone thinks of you is none of your business.  And it’s true, I don’t want to know what you think of me, unless of course you think my lipstick is cute, you like my dress or you’re complimenting me on my ability to walk in stilettos.  I don’t think anyone minds when someone says something nice about us, and I think for the most part people are generally kind and likely won’t say anything negative to you.  But the world is filled with jerks who feel it’s their right, maybe their obligation, to tell you what’s on their mind and to harass you.  I know that people at the mall don’t care what I think, so why do they suppose I care about what they think?  Guess what?  I don’t. Although for the most part my adventures have been wonderful, I still get second glances and stares.  And that’s okay, I look amazing and I don’t mind.  You look amazing, too, by the way.  I don’t spend any time trying to figure out why someone is staring, but I am self-aware enough to know I am well over six feet tall in heels and I am likely wearing a “look-at-this-fabulous-dress” dress so I am not surprised by the looks.  I am also a t-girl and, let’s face it, not everyone has seen a transperson before out in the real world so it’s not unrealistic someone sees me and is processing it for a moment. And this is okay.   I knew I was ready to go out into the real world once I accepted the fact that people would probably always react this way.  Being prepared for the worst made the positive, even the mundane experiences, even better. But people are people and some think that their opinion and perspective needs to be heard.  I know that there are many people, for many reasons, whether politically or religiously or whatever, think that transpeople are…well, not okay.  We’re unnatural, heathens, perverts, confused, or not part of God’s plan.  I understand that others will have this perspective and belief system, but I am not on this planet to make anyone but myself happy.  I am not living my life to make others comfortable and neither are you.  Well, maybe you are, I don’t know.  Are you? I have no illusions about myself or how others see me.  I fully accept that others “know” I am trans.  And with that, I also fully accept that others will think of me as a man in a dress, a guy playing dress up or something derogatory.  Some members of the transcommunity embrace the term “tranny”, but I think it’s offensive.  Regardless, most people don’t care about me and what I’m wearing and they are distracted and engaged in their own life, or, more likely, staring at their phone.  Some people do want to share their opinion and for the most part, it’s overwhelmingly positive.  Some will compliment my outfit whether it’s because they sincerely like it, or because it’s another way of saying “I support the transcommunity” and will go out of my way to make me feel welcome. But the point is that there will always be those that just don’t like us.  If you go out at all, whether once a year or once a week or living full-time, the odds are pretty good someone will say something that will not be very nice.  How you react to it is one thing, but being prepared and accepting that you’ll likely have that experience does make it easier to leave the living room.  Last year at the mall I was having a nice afternoon shopping (of course) and a woman walked across the hall and intentionally bumped into me and loudly said “oh, excuse me, SIR”.  At first I was confused.  I was wearing a cute white dress with a floral patterns, matching accessories, nude heels, my favorite lipstick and carrying a purse.  It took me a moment to remember that not everyone will respond to me as the gender as I am presenting as.  Once that moment of confusion passed, I realized what had happened.  Although I will never know why she did this, it was pretty clear she wanted to make me feel uncomfortable, stupid or embarrassed.  Perhaps she felt that I needed to know that I wasn’t “fooling” her.  I don’t know.  I don’t know what she thought of me.  I didn’t ask.   I didn’t care.  Still don’t. So, what happened next?  Well, nothing, to be honest.  It wasn’t worth thinking about or speculating about.  Rude people are not worth your time or energy.  Don’t let them steal your sparkle.  It didn’t ruin my day or bother me or hurt my feelings in the slightest.  I didn’t feel stupid, I didn’t feel embarrassed, I didn’t feel ugly or male.  Whatever she wanted to accomplish, she failed miserably.  I went on to have a fabulous afternoon and evening, found two really cute dresses and had a fun, thirty minute conversation about politics with a grandmother, her daughter and her granddaughter from Missouri. You’ll have good days, bad days and days that are unremarkable.  You’ll have days where you’ll find the perfect matching heels for the dress you bought two years ago but have never worn.  You’ll have days where you’ll have lipstick on your teeth and run your stockings.  You’ll have days where you stumble a little in your stilettos and lose an earring.  You’ll have days where someone will call you ‘sir’ and smirk.  You’ll have days where a grandmother from St. Louis will call you the sweetest thing and waiters will call you ‘ma’am’.  Mama said there would be days like this, and she was right. Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender Days Like This Last month the MN T-Girls visited Midwest Makeup in the Uptown neighborhood of Minneapolis.  Owned by the fabulous Corrie, she not only runs an amazing store, she also does male to female transformations as part of her Femme Makeovers service. I was fortunate to get a makeover by her when I visited her store and wanted to share my experience.  I’ve had a lot of makeovers over the last few years but I have to say I was blown away by Corrie and her techniques.  I’ve been using color correcting  to cover up my beard line, but the foundation and concealing technique she used was amazing.  What I loved about the makeover was watching her work.  Most of the makeovers I’ve had I faced the artist and didn’t see my face until my makeover was completed, but with Corrie I was in front of a mirror the entire time and was able to see her work.  I was able to see my face transform into someone beautiful and it was amazing.   Corrie is set up to do makeovers not only in her store but also in a private room should you so wish.  Corrie understands that many of us have a need for privacy and she is more than able to accommodate.   After the makeover, I did some shopping and purchased the concealer and eyeliner she used for my makeover.  I also picked up some custom made lip gloss for my wife. I had an amazing afternoon and I cannot recommend Corrie and her store enough.  I know you’ll have an amazing time. Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing makeup minnesota mn t-girls Shopping transgender A Visit to Midwest Makeup I am proud to be a contributor to Frock magazine and the newest issue is now available. Frock is a free, award winning, glossy bi-monthly, digital magazine that’s aimed squarely at the Transgender and Drag communities.  Frock is full of Drag and Transgender-related articles, features and stories.  My feature is titled ‘Pink Fog’ and appears in each issue. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Frock magazine The New Issue of Frock is Out! For background, I am a straight, closeted crossdresser. I identify as a “sissy” meaning I tend to prefer frilly, innocent outfits (think baby dolls and Alice in wonderland) … dressing is arousing for me … and I am not interested in really being female in public. Here is where I could use some advice. I have three outfits but I always feel intimidated to put them on (they are a bit over the top in terms of frills and lace so not really public appropriate). And when I do, I put them on and don’t really know what to do with myself. I’ll curtsy a few times in the mirror and then put everything away.  I think about dressing a lot but I don’t understand why I only allow myself a few minutes to feel pretty and then pack “Ashleigh” away. Do you have any advice as to why I might feel this way or ways to explore my dressing in more fulfilling ways?  Thanks!  Ashleigh I like to think that the term ‘transgender’ covers a lot of different forms of gender identity.  Someone explained to me that the term covers any form of identification that is outside of the normal cultural norms that are associated with the gender that is assigned to someone at birth.  So, by that definition I believe transgender can cover everything from drag to transitioning. As a lifelong crossdresser/t-girl, the world of sissy dressing is not new to me, although it’s not something I’ve ever explored.  However, I think part of us feel that there is a bit of a shift in personality as we go from one gender to another.  I certainly don’t feel that there is a lot of overlap in both of my lives/genders.  As I get ready and do my makeup, I definitely feel myself…crossing over.  It’s a strange feeling and not easy to explain, but I think many of us can relate. I used to feel a bit of a blend between both sides of me, regardless of which gender I am presenting as.  But over the last few years, I feel the separation of my two sides are more defined than ever.  As Hannah, I almost completely withdraw from my male life.  I don’t do the things I would normally do as a male.  The same is true when I am in male mode.  When I am out running errands, I won’t drop by Sephora for eyeliner.  I’ll wait until Hannah is out.  It feels a little odd to me to do things as one gender for the other. I think you need to let yourself slip into your other self.  You need to mentally shift into your other gender.  It’s easy to feel a little self-conscience as you dress and when you first see yourself in the mirror.  But let go of your male side and enjoy you are. You may also consider exploring your female side in other ways.  You obviously love frilly dresses, but perhaps considering wearing clothes that are less “dress up” and more casual.  I think for some (not all) that dress up as a sissy do it as a fetish or a sexual thrill and for many of us, that’s where our gender exploration began.  It’s certainly where I began.  But I evolved, I tried other clothes that were less fetish-y and more appropriate for a night out or an afternoon at the mall.  Perhaps if you dressed in a way that would allow you to blend in, you may feel more comfortable leaving the house. The clothes you wear can have a direct impact on how you feel.  I have a beautiful floor length ballgown that I absolutely love but I feel a little silly when I where it my living room.   I feel much more comfortable in a casual dress.  And killer heels. I hope that helps! Love, Hannah Uncategorized Ask Hannah crossdressing transgender Ask Hannah! 44 MN House Republicans back ban on transgender employees using the bathroom From thecolu.mn A striking forty-four Republicans have cosponsored a bill in the Minnesota House that would block businesses and other employers from providing gender-neutral restrooms or from enacting policies that allow transgender employees to use appropriate restrooms. The bill, like one introduced in the Minnesota Senate on Friday, amends the Minnesota Human Rights Act, the nation’s first nondiscrimination law barring discrimination based on gender identity. House committee hearing set for anti-transgender bill From thecolu.mn HF3396 will get a hearing in the Minnesota House Civil Law and Data Practices Committee on Thursday, March 31. The committee meeting starts at 8:15am in room 10 of the State Office Building. HF3396 is a bill that targets Minnesota’s longstanding ban on discrimination based on gender identity, enacted in 1993. It would block gender-inclusive policies at school districts and local municipalities and force transgender people to use a restroom that does not correspond to their gender — putting many transgender people at risk for discrimination and violence, according to research at UCLA’s Williams Institute. Every once in a while, someone sends me an email where the writer says that Republican’s don’t hate or discriminate against transpeople and I think about those emails when I read articles like this.  I wonder why 44 people, Republicans or otherwise, would care if a private business offered a gender-neutral restroom.  I also wonder why anyone could vote for a law that would reverse a ban on discrimination. I hate reading news like this. Love, Hannah Uncategorized activism transgender Proposed Minnesota Legislation Against the Transgender Community Last night I had the honor and pleasure of meeting Corrie, a superstar in the Twin Cities trans community.  I’ve been hearing about Corrie and her business Midwest Makeup for a few years now and I am kicking myself for not meeting her sooner.  Midwest Makeup not only sells amazing makeup I’ve never heard of before (they custom make lipstick!), but she is absolutely the most talented makeup artist I’ve ever met. Corrie also specializes in male to female transformation services and has a website called Femme Makeovers where she does makeovers and gives lessons for those who are looking for an absolutely incredible life and gender changing experience. Corrie was the host of the MN T-Girls March event last night where she kindly invited our group to her shop for an after hours event where she demonstrated different techniques such as beard covering, contouring, eyelash application and many other skills.     I’ve been using a color correcting technique for beard cover for a few years now and it works rather well, but I was amazed at a product she demonstrated  called Camouflage Creme by Kryolan.  I highly recommend it for those of us who have trouble covering facial hair.   After the demonstrations were over, Corrie and her associates Hexa and Ben helped the girls shop for makeup and provide one on one tutorials.  I love watching amazingly talented makeup artists work their magic.   It was a wonderful, beautiful evening.  Every time I talk to a makeup artist I realize how much more there is to learn and how many possibilities makeup has. Thank you Corrie, Hexa and Ben for a truly magical evening.  Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing makeup minnesota mn t-girls Shopping An Amazing Night! I am honored to be named this month’s featured cover girl at Rachel’s Place, a wonderful blog with resources and news about the t-girl community.  If you visit her blog, pleasetake a few moments to participate in her 2017 survey.  Thank you Rachel! Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender Featured Cover Girl TLC’s “Say Yes to the Dress” will break fresh ground later this month when the reality series features an openly transgender bride.  More on Huffington Post. Am the only t-girl who has intense pangs of jealousy when we watch this show?  I can’t imagine how amazing shopping for a beautiful dress like this would be. Love, Hannah Uncategorized Shopping transgender Say Yes to the Dress… I think many of  us feel that we have two sides and that out two sides are very different from each other.  Sometimes I have a hard time believing that both my male persona and Hannah are the same physical being.  We are two souls in one body, in a way.  There is overlap of course, but I feel there are parts of me that come out depending on the gender I present at on any given day. I couldn’t help but think about this as I read about Nancy Clench and Nathan Sparling.  In male mode, Nathan is one of the Scottish National Party’s most trusted senior political advisers.  As Nancy, she is one of London’s most beloved drag queens.  As Hannah, I feel pretty fearless but I can’t imagine what it would be like to be so out and open in both of my genders.  I keep both sides of me pretty separated, probably less than three people know “me” and Hannah. You can read more more abut Nancy and Nathan here! Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender Nancy and Nathan I remember reading about Miss Vera’s Finishing School for Boys Who Want to be Girls around the time I was graduating high school.  I was thrilled and astonished by such a school and wanted to go there so badly.  I tried to find out as much information I could about Miss Vera and a little later I found a copy of her book.  I must have read it a million times before it was tossed in a purge.  Thankfully, I own it again, along with her second book. Last year I read about a similar organization in Japan called the Onnanoko Club (Girls’ Club) that that, according to the article, ‘is not a drag bar with theatrical outfits and shows, but rather a relaxed space where a man can arrive straight from the office, perhaps in a suit, and indulge his feminine side with a complete transformation.’ NPR has an article about Miss Vera that is totally worth your read.  Has anyone hear visited Miss Vera or a similar place? Love, Hannah Uncategorized crossdressing transgender Cross-Dressing Academy Helps Put Men In Touch With ‘Femmeselves’ Just in case anyone still thinks that Republicans don’t hate the LGBTQA community.  From NPR: The Trump administration is rescinding guidance issued by its predecessor on the rights of transgender students to use bathrooms based on the gender with which they identify. More here From the Minneapolis Star Tribune: Transgender students on Wednesday lost federal protections that allowed them to use school bathrooms and locker rooms matching their gender identities, as the Trump administration stepped into a long-simmering national debate. More here This is the beginning and it will not end with this.  But we can fight back. Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender Trump Administration Rescinds Obama Rule On Transgender Students’ Bathroom Use It was a very, very cold evening last night, but that didn’t stop the MN T-Girls from our monthly adventure! I had spent the afternoon doing some shopping and meeting a friend for coffee, and by the time I met up with the other t-girls temperatures were a few degrees below zero.  Did sub-zero temperatures and icy sidewalks stop me from wearing a dress with a hemline above the knee and four inch stilettos? I think you know the answer to that. For our first outing of 2018, we met at The Townhouse, Saint Paul’s oldest GLBTQA nightclub.  There were about two dozen of us who braved weather that was actively trying to kill us.  We had some drinks, some food, chatted about the holidays, met new friends and a lot of girl talk.  It was a nice way to start the year.  Unfortunately I didn’t get any good photos of the girls but everyone looked fabulous and was dressed a lot more practical than I was. As the MN T-Girls enters our fifth year, I’ve been thinking a lot about how far the group has progressed and what the future holds for us.  I am constantly thinking about what we’ll do next, whether it’s shopping and makeup lessons or events built around activism.  I try to balance our events that appeal to all members of the group, whether it’s an event at The Townhouse, which tends to be one of the first places a t-girl goes when we leave the house for the first time to something bigger and more public to appeal to those of us who have been out in the real world for years and are comfortable anywhere. Most of the events for 2018 are already planned out and they range from attending Pride events around the state to makeup demonstrations to photo shoots to holiday parties, but I am always thinking about what we can do. It is a lot of work planning and coordinating these events and I tell the girls I will always continue to do so as long as the girls show up. I look forward to what the year brings! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls Baby, it’s, Like, Really Cold Outside It was such a small thing, but seeing my name written on a Starbucks cup was one of the most memorable moments of my life.  Seeing ‘Hannah’ written under a lipsticked kiss coffee cover was such  a thrill. Our names are important.  They have power, they give us power.  Usually our names are something we chose.  Sometimes they are the names we would have been given had we were identified as female at birth. Sometimes someone else gives them to us.  But the power comes from us having a name, a real name to this side of us that is usually a secret to almost everyone else in our lives. It’s funny, when I talk to other t-girls, we chat about shoes, makeup, shopping…but we also talk about deeper things, like our family, whether or not this side of us works in our relationships, or politics.  But our names are rarely discussed.  How did you get yours? Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender What’s in a Name? From the Minneapolis Star Tribune: Group will advise the City Council and Park Board on issues such as disparities, employment and access. Minneapolis city leaders created an official group Friday to advise the City Council and Park Board on matters related to the transgender community. The new Transgender Equity Council is part of an ongoing city effort to identify disparities and work more closely with community members. The city launched an annual Trans Equity Summit in 2014 and formed a transgender issues work group that same year. The council established Friday will continue that work but be subject to the city’s open appointment process and open meeting laws, said Council Member Elizabeth Glidden, who sponsored the measure. More here! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota transgender Minneapolis establishes Transgender Equity Council Yesterday the MN T-Girls had our monthly outing.  Every few months we get together at the Townhouse, Saint Paul’s oldest LGBTQ nightclub.   When a t-girl is ready to go out, the Townhouse is usually one of the first place we go…it certainly was one of mine! It was a small group, just six of us and we had a nice evening enjoying some drinks and girl talk, chatting about everything from makeup to shoes to family. As I looked around the table I reflected about although it was small group at the moment, I was amazed at how many of us are out there and how alike we are. We all go through the same experiences, whether family members not quite understanding or accepting us, or the challenges with finding heels or the thrill of an amazing makeover.  We are lucky to find others like us.  I know many of us have felt like we are the only ones in the world who do what we do, but we’re not.  You are not alone, and never have been.  We all know how we feel, we all know how each other feels, It was wonderful catching up with some old and fabulous friends. Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls transgender Saturday Nights are T-Girls Night! From Huffington Post: What’s believed to be the first manufactured transgender doll is about to make its debut at a New York City toy fair, and it’s based on Florida transgender teenager Jazz Jennings, star of the reality TV program “I Am Jazz.”  This is pretty amazing.  If you had told me  when I was a kid that there would be a trans doll, I never would have believed you.  Am I the only who used to dress Ken dolls in Barbie clothes? Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender ‘I Am Jazz’ Transgender Doll To Debut At NYC Toy Fair Doing anything tomorrow?  City Pages has an article about a Drag Queen Garage Sale happening at Lush in Minneapolis. Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota transgender Drag  Queen Garage Sale In November of 2015, the MN T-Girls visited Sidhe Brewing Company, a local beer brewer in Saint Paul where one of the owners is a transwoman.  Here’s us enjoying a drink.  City Pages has written an article about Kathleen Culhane  as part of the their People Issue featuring women and men who make Minnesota a nicer place to live.  I am not much of a drinker but I think it’s  wonderful to see a transwoman on this list. Cheers! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota transgender Kathleen Culhane: The Beer Scientist We live in  complex world that is filled with anti-LGBTQ bills looming and trangender models such as Andrea Pejic, Geena Rocero, and now Anjali Lama.  Huffington Post and Pink News just posted fascinating articles about Lama, the first trans person to be featured in Mumbai’s famous fashion week.  I love seeing articles and girls like this. I think we live in a world where we go two steps forward, and one step back. Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender Anjali Lama: The First Trans Person To Walk An Indian Catwalk The country has certainly changed a lot since the November election.  Shortly after the president was elected, there were stories about people of color being attacked and being told to go back to their own country.  Racially charged graffiti found in schools, and a recently a mosque in Texas burning to the ground just hours after the immigrant ban was signed into law. As a member of the trans community, I am worried about us.  It’s no secret that the current vice-president is very anti-LGBT and I worry about our rights being taken, I worry about attacks on our community.  The first time I went out after the election I felt an apprehension I hadn’t felt since the first time I left the house years ago.  Fortunately it was a MN T-Girls event and one of the reasons I founded the group was the belief of safety in numbers, or, I suppose, we are stronger together.   In the times I’ve been out since the election, I’ve braced myself for…something.  But so far there hasn’t been any incidents.  In fact, it has seemed a little more positive than usual.  The MN T-Girls event in November was dinner at a wonderful restaurant and as we discussed the election and our fears, a group of cis-women approached our table and let us know how happy they were to see us.  I was so happy to hear to hear that.  I thought by being out in public was, in a way, an act of defiance of the new administration.  They might hate us, they might want to pass laws against us, but we are not going back into the closet.  I can’t go back in the closet, between all my dresses and heels there is no room for me.  It was also wonderful to hear support from…anyone. Having fun but also watching my back The most recent time I was out was also for a MN T-Girls event where we went shopping downtown.  This was a fun afternoon and I struck up a conversation with another woman who was shopping.  As I browsed the racks she mistook me for a sales clerk and we started to chat about…well, clothes, of course.  I loved this little conversation because it was initiated by her.  I have no doubt in my mind she knew I was (and still am, I suppose) transgender but she spoke to me anyway.  I know that sounds silly but I wonder if anyone avoids making conversation with me because of who I am.  If they do, this woman did not.  It was a fun day and I was happy that the day passed without incident. However, I still wait for something.  I fully believe that people who are anti-trans, racist and sexist feel emboldened now that we have a president and administration who has a track record of these traits as executive orders such as the immigration ban are signed into law.  I live in a very liberal city in a state that voted for Hillary Clinton (or against Trump in some cases) but so many of us live in towns and states that went the other way. Have you experienced any change in people’s attitude since the election? Uncategorized transgender Feeling Unsafe in Uncertain Times The MN T-Girls had our monthly outing today and it was no coincidence it took place on the same day as hundreds of demonstrations took place around the world putting a spotlight on women’s rights.  I  believe that being out on a day like today was important and although our rights could be taken away with a signature, it will not make US go away.  We’re here, we are real people, we exist. So we marked the day by being together, by having coffee, by going shopping and trying on (and buying) dresses and having dinner.  It was wonderful. I hadn’t been out for a while so I really was looking forward to our day.  The Macy’s location in downtown Minneapolis is scheduled to close this spring and since Macy’s has a history of being pro-transgender, I thought a day out shopping would be a lot of fun. I headed downtown early to just enjoy being out and I was glad the weather was so nice and warm so I could wear my new dress.  I did some window shopping and a had a coffee before I met up with the girls.   We met up at Starbucks, had a coffee and chatted for a bit before shopping!  It was a lot of fun shopping in a big group.  We browsed the racks, looked at shoes and tried on a lot of dresses.  We spent about two hours picking out outfits and clothes and had a lot of fun.   I had a lot of fun trying on new dresses and I ended up buying two, but I really regret not picking up the long gold gown I tried on.  Maybe next time.    After we maxed out our credit cards it was time for dinner at The Union, just down the block from Macy’s.  It was a wonderful way to spend the day and I can’t wait for next month’s event! Love, Hannah Uncategorized minnesota mn t-girls Shopping transgender Shopping with the T-Girls! I think we can have a lot of anxiety when it comes to visiting a doctor as not every transgender person is the same and many of us are still going back in forth between genders, sometimes even on a day-to-day basis.  Trusting someone with who we are is not easy as it’s sometimes hard for us to understand ourselves who we are, let alone explaining this to someone else. Huffington Post has an interesting article about this and I think it’s totally worth a read. Love, Hannah Uncategorized transgender Doctors Want To Learn More About Treating Transgender Patients 