I wish I didn’t have to be writing this in 2017, but there’s still disagreement, even among those who vocally support trans people, around whether trans surgeries are really medically necessary. To me, this is an obvious “yes,” but perhaps it’s harder for those who don’t experience dysphoria to understand, so let’s try an analogy.  Imagine that a woman is born without a vagina or a penis. I’m simplifying here, as actual intersex biology is more complex than this, but let’s say that our hypothetical little girl is born without identifiable characteristics of either common genitalia. Undoubtedly, it would be considered a serious issue and the doctor would assume that something needs to be done. In other words, once we decide (often non-consensually) that someone fits into the category of “male” or “female,” we’ll go to desperate lengths to make sure they conform. There are still plenty of cases of parents deciding for an intersex child that she is female before she’s able to consent, and authorizing surgeries to create a more recognizable or deeper vagina. But I also suspect that if our hypothetical child did not undergo operations as an infant, and then sought medical intervention as an adult woman with a fully developed gender identity, most anyone would be fine with that and insurance would cover it. Contrast this with another woman who is born without a vagina, but with a penis. We arbitrarily decide in this case that her confirmation surgery is medically unnecessary and that she falls into a different category from the first woman, even though they are both adult women who are seeking vaginal reconstruction so that their bodies align with their gender identity within our current societal framework. Suddenly, the surgery is cosmetic or elective, not a necessary medical procedure. Now, it’s one thing to argue that society is the problem, and that all bodies should be accepted as aligned with the gender identity of the person inside, or to question the idea of a vagina aligning with a woman in the first place. But given the world we live in, where women who don’t have those specific genitalia experience greater discrimination, abuse, and dysphoria, I’d argue that for those who want such a procedure, it’s medically justified regardless of whether the woman in question was born with intersex traits or with a penis and XY chromosomes. human rights trans gender confirmation surgery sex reassignment surgery transgender rights Trans Surgeries Are Not Cosmetic Thursday afternoon I went to the big #TimeIsNow immigration rally at the Capitol and I was struck by the shirts we were all wearing that said “LGBT Families for Immigration Reform.” I felt like a bit of a jerk for criticizing the shirts later to a friend, but it just kept niggling at me. Why LGBT families? Why not LGBT people? My question gets to a bigger problem that comes up a lot in LGBT organizing work when we want to develop messaging around “X Is a Trans Issue” or “X Is an LGBT Issue.” The challenge, generally, is to convince an audience of LGBT folks (or in my case, often trans folks) that some policy area that’s not usually associated with the core goals of the movement is at its heart an LGBT or trans issue. We usually do that in one of two ways:    Link the issue to core LGBT movement issues. This is what the t-shirt example does. We tend to think of family issues as a movement priority, whether that’s marriage or second-parent adoption or binational family immigration issues. A lot of LGBT immigration reform proponents have used the example of binational couples to make the argument: if we agree that queer families are a core issue for our movement, then we should be concerned about the immigration laws because they often separate families. Other examples of this include linking reproductive rights to transition-related health care or framing health care as an LGBT issue via hospital visitation policy problems. Tell a tragic compelling story about a queer or trans person. Strategy B is what comes up when you don’t have a good hook with an agreed-upon issue, or sometimes alongside that hook. You find some really sad examples of violence/abuse/discrimination, preferably using people who are considered upstanding and acceptable according to movement values, and you tell their stories from a human rights angle. “This person is part of our community and the abuse he/she/they suffered is so bad that it triggers a need to consider this an LGBT/trans issue from a human rights perspective.” So for example, you might find a gay man and a trans woman who were raped in prison and use their tragic stories to illustrate why prison reform is an LGBT issue.  Neither of these ways are wrong, exactly. It’s true that the agreed-upon core issues often do touch others, like immigration, and it’s also true that compelling stories are a good way to remind people that we’re all human and we need to support human rights. But I think we can do better. Why is immigration a trans issue? Yes, it’s about human rights, and thus we should care from a solidarity or ally perspective if we’re non-immigrant trans people. Yes, some trans people have experienced really shitty things at the hands of our immigration system, and we want that to stop. Yes, draconian immigration laws separate queer families, including families with trans members. But it’s also a trans issue for reasons that are less sexy and harder to describe. Trans immigrants have to deal with a lot of shit, not only when they experience the really amazingly awful, front-page-headline story kind of treatment. They deal with daily microaggressions that are compounded by dual identities, and often also by race, class, and ethnicity. Some of these trans immigrants are not ideal candidates for a Facebook post or a fundraising email. They may have a history of criminality or be too politically radical to use in a carefully-orchestrated communications strategy. They may not want to be part of such a strategy. And then, beyond the individual people who are both trans and immigrants, our immigration system as an institution overlaps a lot with the problems trans people are fighting. The problems with our immigration system and the violence and discrimination trans people face are clearly part of the same disgusting web of policing, capitalism, xenophobia, patriarchy, and kyriarchy. There’s not much difference between the vigilantes with guns who stand at the U.S.-Mexico border and those who beat up or murder trans women in the streets. There’s not much difference between police harassing immigrants with “papers please” policies and racial profiling and police harassing trans people with gender policing and asking for ID to use the restroom. I have a problem with the “link to a core issue” strategy because I want to know who came up with those core issues. It’s not even that it’s a single-issue marriage movement, it’s that it’s a movement of five or ten or fifteen core issues. We have hundreds of issues, and how we prioritize them necessarily varies from person to person. Of course organizations and individuals have to prioritize their use of limited resources, and I support using strategies such as determining who is most marginalized within a community, determining what issue areas are tackled the least and thus need more resource commitment, and determining what issues a group can tackle most efficiently with given resources. But it doesn’t take many resources to simply say “we care about this.” I have a problem with the compelling story strategy, and with the overall “we care about this because we are all humans” strategy, because it both privileges the easiest-to-package stories and can become weak and diluted. When we hear “X is a human right,” it may be absolutely true but we hear that so many things are human rights and it doesn’t necessarily speak to us. I think we need to acknowledge the specificity of our interest in different issues as queer and trans people. So again, immigration is a trans issue because we as trans people are dealing with this tangled web of policing and patriarchy and bullshit, and part of addressing that system is supporting immigration reform. Immigration is a trans issue because trans immigrants experience multiple forms of oppression that make them one of the parts of our trans community most in need of social, legal, and policy change. I think that we have an enormous untapped creative potential as a movement, and that we need to start going all-in, taking risks, and supporting social justice in all its forms not simply because we are humans but because we are humans who know the tremendous pain and suffering a broken system can cause. We need to acknowledge that this is what queer and trans work is about, whether we’re working for marriage equality or health care coverage or immigration or protections for sex workers. activism movement building queer trans #TimeIsNow CIR immigration immigration is a trans issue LGBT LGBT movement strategy organizing strategy trans immigrants Immigration Is a Trans Issue: Strategy Around Framing LGBT Rights I’ve been seeing a lot of social media attention today to the release of The Trans 100, a list which I’m honored to be a part of along with many friends, colleagues, and personal heroes. Much of the attention is congratulatory and positive, some is focused more on who’s not on the list. And I think that both of those things are great. The spirit of the list, as I understand it, is to highlight all the amazing work that is done in our community: to use the 100 people on the list not as an exclusive club but as one handful of examples of people who have done great work in the past year to support trans lives in the US in myriad ways. The idea is to shift the conversation from focusing only on deaths and violence to adding a sense of celebration to our need to mourn those lost. Working in “transland,” as I sometimes call the movement, can be a paradox, as we are so often simultaneously trying to promote and celebrate the work we do as proud trans people while at the same time realizing that the work we do is focused on eliminating huge discrepancies and barriers, on reducing tremendous hate and violence. It can be an odd intersection at which to work sometimes (how do we get excited about a victory that means we are simply more likely to be alive, employed, or healthy at a baseline?), and I believe that it is crucial we never lose sight of both sides of that story–and of the other discrepancies that too often divide success from discrimination and violence along race, class, and ability lines. I am happy about this list because it wide-ranging and it shows our collective power and ability to do great things in the face of adversity. I’m glad to see many POC on the list, a nice range of local activists, to see those doing cultural work alongside those doing legal and political advocacy. I’m glad that there are many lesser-known names, and that online activists have been included alongside on-the-ground grassrootsers. Though I’m thrilled to see my NCTE colleagues Mara and Harper Jean recognized, I’m also cheering hardcore for those who work with such amazing small radical projects as the Brown Boi Project, the Audre Lorde Project, Planet DeafQueer, and Transformative Justice Law Project. There are too many of my own heroes to name here, and also too many whose work I must. research. NOW. So while I’d like to see even more underrecognized folks on the list, more people of color, sex workers, people with disabilities, etc., I’m applying my critiques to a tone of celebration today. We have this list and it has some attention and hopefully that attention will lead to what we really need–more people nominating next year, more people volunteering to work on the project, an even more diverse and inclusive list. I’m excited to see who made the various breakout groups that will be released in coming months, and I look forward to working with this great big kickass community to achieve things that are bigger and better every year. I’m glad that my friends and colleagues are the kinds of people who recognize gaps in such a list and will bring them to light, because it makes us all better. ¡Viva la revolución trans! activism trans #trans100 trans 100 transgender Thinking About the #Trans100 in Critique and Celebration If you haven’t been following #trans Twitter in the UK lately, let me briefly bring you up to speed. First, UK journalist Suzanne Moore published a piece in the New Statesman about women’s anger, which included a throwaway line that justifiably got a lot of trans activists pissed off: “We are angry with ourselves for not being happier, not being loved properly and not having the ideal body shape – that of a Brazilian transsexual.” Moore defended herself by saying that trans issues were not the point of the article and published a piece in the Guardian where she called intersectionality “its own rectum” and attempted to sound like the sane, logical one focused on women’s issues while implicitly casting the trans Twitterati as narcissistic and irrational. Julie Birchill then shored this opinion up in a more openly vitriolic way when she wrote the Guardian follow-up piece, Transsexuals should cut it out. Here’s the thing: the Burchill piece clearly has one aim. It’s there to stir people up. It’s there to get the Guardian clicks (which is why I haven’t linked the article; you can Google). It’s there to sell ads. And while it pisses me off that the Guardian would publish such a thing, I also know what their business is. The thing that really gets me riled up is slightly different, and that’s the fact that these arguments seem rational to some people—that this hate speech is being put out there, on its own, without any kind of warning or counterpoint, and left to sit and seep into the brains of folks who really haven’t thought about trans issues. Blah blah, transsexual lobby, blah blah. Burchill openly insults us for funsies, but at the same time she and Moore are pushing an insidious, dangerous argument. The argument is that trans people don’t care about women, that we are getting in the way of women’s rights, that we are anti-feminist. The argument is that trans women, in particular, are so concerned about penises that they can’t focus on the important issues of domestic violence, human trafficking, and women’s rights generally. And it’s important that we stand up and loudly proclaim that this argument is bullshit. The scary thing is that to many, it will sound logical. And of course, it sounds terrible. To someone who’s never interacted with a trans woman on a friendly basis, it’s probably not so hard to jump to “oh my God, they’re so selfish that they’re ignoring domestic violence in favor of lobbying for sex change surgeries!” We need to directly attack this strawman argument. We need to point out that many trans women are in fact actively engaged in women’s rights issues that have nothing to do with trans identity. It isn’t our fault that anti-trans feminists only notice trans women when they’re talking about trans stuff, because that’s what they want to pick on. A trans woman working against trafficking or DV doesn’t make the news when the news is all about making fun of “those silly transsexuals.” But even more importantly, we need to make it clear that transmisogyny is anti-feminist. And this has nothing to do with penises, honestly. It’s about human rights, it’s about casting trans women as less than human and how that is a patriarchal act. It’s about issues that cis feminists talk about all the time: body image, gender stereotyping, women’s dignity. Why do these arguments disappear when an anti-trans feminist is presented with a trans woman’s body? We need to stand up in the media and shout about these hypocrisies. When someone starts dividing “real” women’s rights from the “trivial” ones, we have a big fucking problem. Say it with me, now. As a favorite Facebook group of mine proclaims, Transmisogyny Is A Women’s Issue! Moore, Birchill, and their anti-trans feminist buddies are simply on the wrong side of history. media trans anti-trans Guardian Julie Birchill media justice Suzanne Moore TERFs transmisogyny transphobia Anti-Trans Hate from Suzanne Moore and Julie Birchill Isn’t the Point–Using Feminism to Push Transmisogyny Is I saw this button on Pinterest a little while ago, and the slogan struck me.  Beyond obvious queer cutesiness, I started thinking about what it might actually mean.  “Love is a many gendered thing.” Though it sounds flip, the slogan really resonates with me, because it reflects the way I look at gender.  I don’t ignore gender in people I’m attracted to, but at the same time I don’t tend to lump attractions by gender, or at least not by gender alone.  My tendency is to create more complex categories–“geeky fannish femmes,” “andro punk trans folks,” “playful trans women with awesome shoes,” “fat femmes that rock the retro chic look.” Generally, we’re expected to group the people we love into gender clusters, and even in the case of bisexuals or pansexuals, I think there’s some expectation that your “type” will depend on the gender you’re thinking of at the moment.  When we talk about multiple genders, or gender being less important, then it becomes this big incoherent blob of “gender has no meaning” or “we can transcend gender.”  But I think that individual genders do have meaning, insofar as they shape the people that claim them.  And I think that an individual’s gender experience can be sexy, and sometimes I fall in love with the way a particular person experiences their gender. What do you think? gender queer relationships trans love is a many gendered thing sexual orientation sexuality Love Is A Many Gendered Thing It’s a blessing and a curse. One of the issues I’m most passionate about–the rights of trans people in prisons and detention facilities–has been in the news lately.  It should be a chance to raise awareness around this important issue and to use media to push forward the tide of increasing respect for prisoners’ fundamental rights that was evidenced in several recent events, including successful lawsuits in Wisconsin and Massachusetts around transition-related care in prison and the issuance of a final ruling on the Prison Rape Elimination Act that incorporates many of trans advocates’ recommendations regarding trans prisoners.  But it was evident from the start that this would be a tricky story to bend in the direction of education and advocacy on the issues, because this is a story that most people just can’t pull past Us vs. Them. The headlines that started rolling in last week range from more-or-less balanced to fear-mongering on the conservative opinion side:  Judge rules in favor for inmate’s sex change operation (Boston Globe, Sep 4) Judge orders Mass. to pay for inmate’s sex change surgery (Boston Globe, Sep 5) Ruling on prisoner’s sex-change a matter of principle (Boston Globe, Sep 6) Judge goes too far in sex change ruling (Boston Globe, Sep 7) Is denying treatment to transsexual inmates “cruel and unusual?” (The Atlantic, Sep 7) Free sex change for prisoner is distasteful, but justified (Boston Globe, Sep 10) The real war on women–rewarded for killing his wife (BernardGoldberg.com, Sep 10) Inmate’s sex change: humane or insane? (Santa Maria Times, Sep 11)  The facts of the case make it tempting, even for transgender people and those engaged in trans rights work, to focus on the individual involved and how heinous it seems that the state would give someone convicted of killing her wife a “free sex change.”  It’s entirely understandable that those who can’t access necessary transition-related health care due to the cost of that care and the lack of insurance coverage would find it frustrating when a prisoner is allowed access to the same care on the state’s dime.  But to focus on Kosilek’s crime, or on the idea of “free benefits” for prisoners, is entirely missing the point. Yes, it’s strange that someone in prison would have better access to healthcare than someone who hasn’t been convicted of a crime, but the problem here isn’t that a prisoner does have access, it’s that many others don’t.  Prisoners should have access to healthcare as a fundamental human right, and so should everyone else.  True, many people don’t have that access right now, but access to human rights isn’t about ranking people by how much we think they deserve a right and doling it out accordingly.  Healthcare access in this country depends on a lot of things–structural inequality, economic opportunity, whether you can get insurance coverage, and whether your insurance covers the treatment you need, to name a few.  The Kosilek case was about a specific legal determination under one specific standard that gives prisoners in a particular jurisdiction access to health care.  The judge made the right call in this case.  There are many other cases, many other standards, that impact trans people’s right to transition-related care in different situations, and many people don’t have care yet.  That sucks, but it doesn’t mean we should wait until all those cases are solved before we provide healthcare to trans prisoners.  It means that we need to hold our country to a standard of basic human rights in all areas. I also want to remind folks in general, but particularly some of the commenters on Lesley’s xoJane piece who are heavily focusing on the idea of “free surgery” or “rewarding prisoners,” that it’s the prison system itself that leads to this situation.  When people commit crimes in the United States, we handle it through incarceration.  We incarcerate people in facilities where if they are allowed to work, they can’t make very much money and they certainly can’t afford to pay for their own healthcare.  One of the consequences of that system is an enormous burden on the state, but that has nothing to do with the question of what necessary healthcare is.  There are other solutions to criminality, solutions that experts on prison abolition and reform can speak to far better than me.  If we provided some means for criminals to work and pay to access rights such as healthcare, then the argument might fly.  But we don’t, and so it’s the state’s responsibility to pay for care.  The state is failing in other areas–we don’t provide adequate health care for the young, the old, the sick, non-citizens, or those with disabilities–but again, the answer to failure in one area is not to fail in another. If this case pisses you off, if you’re outraged, then great.  Excellent!  Join the fight for rights to transition-related care through Medicaid, Medicare, the VA, private insurance, and other programs.  Fight for expansion of the Affordable Care Act.  But don’t spend your time arguing about this one trans woman who did a terrible thing and later won a petition for her human rights.  Frankly, it’s a waste. human rights law & politics trans Michelle Kosilek prison law sex change in prison sex reassignment surgery transgender prisoners This Isn’t About Michelle Kosilek or Trans Murderers, It’s About Human Rights One of the things that I really love about the organization where I work is that we’re not afraid to use the word “moral” when talking about things like prioritizing the needs of the most marginalized, pushing for equality for trans people, and queer organizing.  Christian extremists have done an excellent job of co-opting morality in the public imagination, to the extent that when talking about trans pioneers in school, for example, is decried as “immoral,” we all know exactly what they’re talking about whether or not we agree. But there was never one morality.  Morality has always been subjective.  Morality relies on a system of beliefs, a value system of right and wrong, and the extreme Christian right version of morality is just one version.  What we need to do as a radical trans queer movement is take back that word and start talking about why supporting trans rights, particularly the rights of those who have the least power in our society, is an absolutely moral position.  We need to take that language back and start talking about how cissexist and transphobic people are immoral, and why it’s wrong to oppose our stance. I would love to hear any success stories from folks who have been able to use this language in their organizing, or any ideas you have about how to apply this strategy in practice. activism trans Framing the Trans Movement as a Moral Movement When I was in high school I learned about the difference between sex and gender.  I was lucky to even have that much education at the time, where I lived, but what we learned was rather basic.  Sex is your body and your chromosomes; gender is your identity.  This simple definition assumes that gender is a relatively simple, coherent thing.  It’s the idea that’s behind “real life experience,” the idea that assumes trans people fit into a fairly narrow range of expressions and traits based on gender identity.  Of course, we don’t. Being female doesn’t mean that you’re feminine, nor does being male mean that you’re masculine.  Perhaps this would be easier for some people.  People do like to be able to identify and name gender.  I’ve said before that my gender is more about how I’m read or named than how I experience myself.  My gender comes out of how I’m perceived.  When I disclose that I’m trans, I sometimes am asked, based on my femme appearance, whether I’m a trans woman or a trans man who hasn’t yet transitioned.  When I explain that I’m genderqueer, I’ve been asked a couple of times what sex I was assumed to be at birth.  I no longer am willing to respond to that question, because it’s so irrelevant. Asher Bauer wrote a post a while back that I need to find where he explained that he’s not transmasculine.  As a femme transman, “masculine” is not part of his gender as he experiences it.  I think this would confuse a lot of people, but it makes sense to me.  Coming into femme has  been the biggest part of my transition, and my history isn’t relevant to that.  Whether I was assumed male or female at birth rarely matters; what does matter is the kinds of privilege I have based on how I’m perceived.  In spaces where I don’t mention my transness, I’m usually perceived as female because of how I look, which gives me a certain privilege.  I also have a lot of privilege because I’m white and college educated, and a whole host of other things.  I don’t want to appropriate anyone else’s experience, and I want to recognize that it is a privileged thing to be able to experience gender in the way I do. One thing I don’t have, paraphrasing from my friend Stephen, is legible identity privilege.  My gender is never going to be very obvious, and no one is ever going to see me walking down the street and think “oh, cool, a non-binary trans femme!”  I’m also not sure how many other non-binary trans femmes are out there, and whether there’s enough similarity in our experiences to form community and camraderie around that.  But I’m very grateful to the trans men and women in my life who do offer that community and camraderie, and who accept that my gender is not something that is visible, though my femme-ness–and through that, my transness–is. trans difference between sex and gender femme nonbinary transfeminine transgender Rethinking Transfemininity I will have more to say on this soon, with concrete examples, once I do some research.  But tonight, I need to get a rant off my chest.  I’m sick of hypocrisy when it comes to trans rights.  I’m sick of people getting the cheers and young trans radical accolades from “focus on the most marginalized among us” rhetoric and then treating actual trans women like shit. To paraphrase Flavia Dozdan, my trans activism will reject transmisogyny or it will be bullshit. It is not okay to talk about structural violence and systematic oppression in the abstract and then be a transmisogynist in your spare time.  Part of being a radical trans activist is confronting your internalized transmisogyny and your own privilege, whatever kind of privilege that may be. I’m not saying that I’m never hypocritical.  Confronting examples of racism in my own actions that runs counter to my activism is an ongoing process.  I benefit daily from a system of white supremacy, imperialism, and genocide.  My entire life is built on the privileges I have as a white person born to white, college-educated parents with access to “merit-based” scholarships.  It is my responsibility to confront that and actively work against forces like structural racism, transmisogyny, etc. But it makes me angry when someone acts so uncritically, blaming and shaming trans women, and then uses their position as a respected trans activist to benefit and exploit. trans trans activism transmisogyny Transmisogynists Should Not Be Respected Trans Activists Recently, I read a news story (I can’t even remember what it was, to be honest) that got me thinking about the concept of etat civil.  Etat civil is a French legal concept that, roughly translated, means “civil status” or your legal state of being.  The French Wikipedia describes it as “a person’s position in the family and society, resulting from a written procedure of administrative identification.”  It comes up in the contexts of births, marriages, and deaths, pretty much, but it also encompasses things like your name and gender, so it’s relevant in transgender identity context. The idea bothers me because although the practical meaning of the term is more like what we call “vital statistics” in the United States, and is dry and deals with demographic data, the actual French term implies much more.  It bothers me that one’s very being, one’s “state” or existence in the public arena is gendered.  Not only is it impossible to escape the gender binary in France due to the gendering of nouns and adjectives in the language, but your being in the eyes of the state must be either male or female (and is exceedingly difficult to change). Sadly, this is not surprising.  I am not surprised that discrimination is so important to us as a society that it bothers us not to be able to gender someone, because I live this every day.  Nor am I surprised that we aren’t sure how to treat someone “as a human being” with no other data.  We’re obsessed with gender as a framework to tell us how to behave, and many among us are deeply bothered when we get gender “wrong,” are confused about someone’s gender, or find that someone’s gender is changing. I would be curious to know if anyone’s done a study on human interaction in online spaces where gender is not known, though I imagine it would be difficult to find many where gender isn’t stated fairly early on in an interaction.  I do find it interesting that among queer and trans Twitter friends, I often don’t know someone’s gender, and am sometimes surprised when I learn it.  I imagine that some assumptions are made based on the online space–gaming, for example, being principally male; Pinterest being principally female–but it’d be interesting to know how many spaces there are where that isn’t the case.  I would love to learn that, even in tiny niches, human beings are simply taken as that, end of discussion. law & politics trans etat civil French law gender marker change identity documents transgender documentation transgender identity Gendering Humanity with the French Concept of Etat Civil A couple of weeks ago, I was somewhat perturbed by a discussion of intersex athletes competing in women’s sports.  The discussion took place on a National LGBT Bar Association call on intersex conditions and the law, generally, but it was the information on sports that I found most bothersome.  I’ve been thinking about the frameworks in which we approach trans identities and disability, finding interesting parallels, and the same is evident for intersex individuals.  In the context of women’s sports, athletes who live and identify as women can be disqualified for intersex conditions because they are thought to have an unfair advantage over men.  However, the line in the sand is far from clear. A couple of months ago, in a dialogue with my friend Kyla on Girl w/ Pen around the classification of gender identity disorder, I mentioned the case of athletes with prosthetic legs being disqualified due to their “unnatural advantage.  In that post, I concluded that the distinction of “unnatural” vs. “natural” wasn’t as obvious as it might seem.  Other extreme body differences, for example being a very tall female basketball player or a very short gymnast, are not considered unnatural or unfair.  The basketball example was also mentioned on the intersex call, in explaining the use of androgen counts to determine who has an “unfair” advantage. In women’s sports, chromosome tests are no longer used to determine gender, but androgen tests are.  The idea is that having more androgens does positively impact athletic performance, so it’s not fair to have athletes with “too many” androgens compete against women.  Of course, these athletes don’t compete against men, either.  At the same time, athletes with unusual height, lung capacity, or other advantages are seen as “fair” and “natural.” This says a lot about the way we view gender, and the way we set norms.  We separate athletes by gender because, on average, male athletes and female athletes have certain differences.  But at the same time, there are huge variations within those two genders, so that a perfectly “even” or “fair” match would be difficult to find.  And really, why would we try?  If the point of high-level sports is to work to be the athlete with the most prowess, someone has to be better.  Many young people would love to play sports at that level, but their bodies don’t allow them.  We’re used to this idea. What we say to intersex athletes when we do tests like this is that there is some line that divides the “normal” from the abnormal.  Folks with a certain number of androgens, like those who conform with their assumed gender, like those who have talents within a socially “acceptable range,” like those who run with legs made of muscle and bone rather than manufactured parts, are considered valid athletes and valid human beings.  Those who fall outside the range don’t get to compete. It’s not just intersex athletes to whom this restriction applies, by the way.  My ears pricked when I heard that androgens were being used as the deciding factor, because I happen to have a hormonal condition that affects my own hormone levels and I do not have an intersex condition.  I asked whether women with PCOS, for example, who might have elevated androgen levels, but would not be considered to have an intersex condition, could be disqualified on that basis.  The answer is yes.  I’ll leave you to mull these thoughts over with me, and please do comment if you have anything to share on this topic! (dis)ability trans disability disabled athletes intersex intersex athletes Intersex Athletes and the Intersection Between “Abnormal” Gender and Disability It’s been several years since I spoke openly about my birth assignment. I stopped doing it, initially, because it’s none of your g-d business. It also confuses a lot of cis people not to have a birth assignment to work with. They need to know “which way” you’re trans, to fit you into at least a birth assignment binary, and that feels shitty to me. This not only doesn’t serve non-binary folks like me, but it also is an imposition of a colonial white binary gender system on lots of people whose gender never was assigned to that system. It erases gender diversity on all sorts of axes. And I get really uncomfortable when even trans people start talking about ourselves more along “AFAB/AMAB” lines than in terms of our actual genders. But despite that, there is some relevance to birth assignment, particularly when we’re talking about transmisogyny. When I stopped talking about my birth assignment, I enjoyed that not everyone could guess it correctly, particularly those who hadn’t met me in person. It made it more difficult to lump me into a preconceived trans pile. My hope, I think, was that in the confusion someone might trip, fall, and land on my actual gender, but of course that rarely happens. Most people couldn’t pick my gender out of a lineup, because I don’t fit a lot of scripts. I don’t present in a way that consistently announces my femmeness, nor do I spend much time hanging around with assumed-female-at-birth white genderqueers. I don’t identify as transmasculine or androgynous. But I do benefit from the privilege of being assumed female both at birth and in most of my life. I don’t experience transmisogyny or the potential violence that my assumed-male peers do.  I’m very uncomfortable even saying the words assumed female at birth, which I’m sure is indicative of internalized misogyny in itself. I can celebrate my femme identity, and my gender is in no way masculine, but it’s also somewhere far away from female. I don’t really know how to relate to my body or my history. I also feel isolated when hanging out with most white AFAB trans folks. Of course, that statement in itself is a bit whiny and privileged. In most ways, I have it pretty damned easy. It’s because of this that I want to suck it up and confront my own discomfort, because as much as I may not identify with my birth assignment, it’s part of who I am. People who look like me get a lot more traction in queer communities. So I want to talk about it, at least from time to time, and on my own terms, because my history and the way I’m perceived based on my body is part of my story. It’s part of my privilege and also part of the oppression I experience in some areas. There are stories I’ve wanted to tell, about the trauma of seeking gynecological care or trying to find gender-friendly resources for pelvic pain, that I can’t without talking about this part of myself. That doesn’t mean that it’s anyone’s business when I’m not talking about it, of course. I don’t define trans people along lines of birth assignment, though I do recognize the tremendous privilege within my own non-binary gender sphere that those like me hold. Until we get to a place where people will stop using birth assignment as a primary way to see trans people, it’s going to be an axis of violence. Unfortunately, I don’t think that’s going away anytime soon. trans AFAB birth assignment transmisogyny Assigned Awesome at Birth Happy New Year! As we dig into 2012, I have several exciting things to announce.   First, a href=http://www.queerfeminism.comQueerFeminism.com/a has officially launched!  Focusing on areas where the feminist movement could improve, including queer/trans inclusion, anti-racism, disability, and decolonization, this is a collaborative site that welcomes contributions from anyone who has thought I wish feminism would do better with me and my community. Second, Ive been very pleased with participation in the Sunday Twitter chats I launched in the fall.  #transchat and #queerchat take place alternating Sundays, 2-4 pm.  Anyone can suggest a topic by contacting me on Twitter or just leaving a comment here. Finally, I have several cool workshops and talks coming up.  At Creating Change, the nations premiere LGBT organizing conference in Baltimore, Ill be leading a workshop Friday morning, January 27th, on incorporating ambiguous identities in queer organizing.  At Lavender Languages (Saturday, February 11th) Ill be facilitating a lunchtime workshop on the words used to describe non-binary identities and populations.  At Momentum (last weekend in March, workshop date TBA) Ill be leading Workshopping Your Sexual Orientation, a unique experience that will break your sexuality wide open.  If youd like me to speak on your campus or at your organization, let me know.  I still have spring dates available. Also, no details yet, but look for more coming from me at Gender Across Borders. feminism queer trans queer feminism Queer, Trans,  Feminist Projects to Watch in 2012 During the last #transchat (next one is tomorrow, 12/11, 2-4pm EST on Twitter) Nat (@quarridors) got me thinking about trans medical history and the kind of assumptions we make based on appearance.  Though I don’t think it’s appropriate to ask a person whether they’re trans*, or a genderqueer person what their “birth” gender was, and I don’t assume that I can tell anything about gender by looking at someone, I do tend to assume that it’d obvious from looking at me what I was raised as, or what’s in my pants. When I think about that, of course, I realize it’s not true.  No one knows that for sure unless I tell them.  And I’m thinking about the value of not disclosing that kind of information as a way to destabilize or deemphasize gender in our interpersonal relations.  What’s in your pants is about as private as it gets, but we don’t treat it that way.  We also make assumptions about bodies and medical histories based on a person’s gender identity.  On the other hand, I think there may be value in my writing about my experiences as someone who grew up female-identified, because that background is a huge part of my trans* story. Anyone have experience with this, or has anyone changed approach over time? trans gender expression gender identity transgender Assumptions About Trans* Genders and Histories Today is the Transgender Day of Remembrance, where we take time out of our day to remember those we’ve lost–too often to violence and suicide.  As we mourn those who have died this year, it’s important to remember who we’ve lost and why.  A few thoughts:  As a community, we cannot abandon those at our margins.  It is crucial that we focus on violence against poor transgender sex workers of color, a community where many of the murders take place.  How can we support sex workers as a community, and how can we adjust our attitudes to recognize ALL transgender people as our brothers, sisters, and friends? The prison-industrial complex is not just a term of art.  It is a violent, oppressive system that is killing our community.  Police who have no training in cultural competency aren’t just rude towards transgender people, but frequently violent and abusive.  Prisons don’t know how to handle transgender prisoners, who are often housed in the wrong facilities, confined in solitary, denied medical treatment, and particularly vulnerable to rape.  We cannot forget those who are “lost” to the system, and must be their unwavering advocates. The problem of suicide is a personal one to me, and difficult to address because I struggle with depression myself, often related to gender dysphoria.  It is difficult for me to conceptualize how others might help. However, this is a serious problem that claims too many lives, and beyond the general work we need to do to increase acceptance of gender variance in our culture, there are some solutions to make transgender and gender non-conforming people feel less alone.  Therapists, other medical professionals, and suicide hotlines that support trans* patients and have experience working with trans* people should advertise this and make themselves known in their communities.  Even for those of us who have the resources to seek professional help, the crippling fear of transphobia in the medical establishment can be too much to overcome without some sign that a provider will be understanding.  And of course, ordinary people, friends and family, can do a huge service just by listening, asking how to help, and not judging those who suffer from depression and suicidal thoughts. movement building trans favorite posts tdor transgender day of remembrance transgender in prison transgender sex work transgender suicide transgender violence Transgender Day of Remembrance and What We Can Learn I had a thought about transphobia, particularly the kind of transphobia that involves cis males freaking out because the idea of a “gender change” is so wrong and unnatural to them.  When this kind of transphobia comes up, I think part of the problem may be that the kneejerk reaction is a sense of wrongness that the perpetrator feels when he imagines himself wanting to be, or turning into, a woman.  A common response is to critique that sense of wrongness, challenge the sense that femininity is wrong or less than masculinity, talk about gender fluidity, etc. And while that’s not a bad approach–certainly, the gender essentialism and sexism should be addressed–I think it might be more effective to instead latch onto that sense of wrongness and affirm it by explaining that many trans people feel a similar sense of wrongness before transition.  If we ask the hypothetical man to imagine instead being born into a female body, knowing that it is “wrong,” he might actually start to think about the transgender experience in a more sympathetic way. privilege trans favorite posts transgender transition transmisogyny transphobia Addressing Cis Male Transphobia Thursday, September 22nd, has been deemed the Day of the Girl.  Focused on girls’ empowerment, girls and adults around the world will be taking actions today to remind everyone about the issues facing girls around the world.  I wanted to write a brief post to focus on something that doesn’t affect all girls, but should be a concern of all adults. There’s been a lot of news lately about transgender youth and treatment of LGBT youth in schools.  Recently, Nightline aired a segment about Jackie, a 10-year-old transgender girl in Ohio (TW for misgendering by the host).  Though not all trans* people claim their identities early on, it is obvious that there are girls in primary and secondary school who are treated by their parents and teachers as boys, as well as girls who may later transition to be boys, or may later determine that they are neither male or female.  While some schools may address gay and lesbian people in their history or health curricula, few talk about the wide range of gender identities that exist. It’s crucial that we recognize this detriment in our education systems and advocate for change.  According to Injustice At Every Turn, 78% of kids who expressed a transgender or non-conforming gender identity in grades K-12 reported harassment.  35% reported physical assault and 12% reported sexual violence.  15% left school at some point (K-12 or college) due to harassment.  31% reported some form of harassment by teachers or staff.  These numbers were higher for trans and gender non-conforming people of color.  Over time, these negative experiences as a student can lead to outcomes including poverty, homelessness, drug use, and suicide. What can we do?  Anti-bullying initiatives are one step, but they can’t be the only one.  Trans* girls have a right to an education, which not only includes safety in school, but also recognition of themselves as human.  Curricula need to address the variety of gender and avoid gender essentialization and stereotyping.  This would benefit all girls, of course, not only those who identify or later identify as trans*.  Teachers also need to provide support and put themselves out there as available mentors for all girls. When I was a girl, I had no idea that genderqueer people existed.  I didn’t learn about transgender until I was a teenager, and when I heard about third gender it was only in an international context.  No one ever suggested in school that gender identity can change over time, or that people don’t have to have a body that “matches” gender.  When I was ten, I wanted to be a boy and was heavily ridiculed to the point of being physically assaulted by my best friend on the playground, with the backing of the entire fifth grade class.  I’m just one example, and things were undoubtedly easier for me than for a girl who is considered to be a boy by her parents and teachers, but the example is illustrative.  We need to do better.  Today, as we think about the rights of girls, let’s not leave anyone out. education trans day of the girl favorite posts transgender education transgender girls transgender in school transgender kids Day of the Girl: The Right of Trans* Girls to an Education Recent debates on whether Chaz Bono on Dancing with the Stars is an appropriate viewing experience for children exemplify a dangerous conservative trend in the LGBT movement.  As in debate on same-sex marriage, queer activists find ourselves being ask to defend our simple humanity, backed into a corner where visible queerness is seen as a bad strategic move. Again, I find myself using an example of a queer celebrity in the media to argue the necessity of a truly queer movement.  The more time we spend arguing that we are normal, “just like” our opponents, the further we get from our policy priorities.  When we allow hate groups to define the debate, they have already won. How can we turn this disaster around? Refuse to engage by framing our position around being like our opponents.  We are not like bigots, homophobes, and transmisogynists.  We embrace diversity.  We fight with creativity and humor.  We shift the ground under gender stereotypes and we regularly fuck with patriarchy.  We don’t accept conservative arguments that dehumanize us and challenge our right to occupy our space. We’re here, we’re queer.  Join us. media movement building queer trans Chaz Bono Dancing with the Stars homophobia politics pop culture transgender transmisogyny Chaz Bono on Dancing with the Stars: Again, We Need a Queer Movement I received a review copy of Captive Genders: Trans Embodiment and the Prison Industrial Complex (coming out this month from AK Press) at the perfect time.  I’ve been frustrated by the growing focus in recent months on two of the things I care least about when it comes to queer rights, the two things that the mainstream LGBT movement seems most adamant about: marriage and the military.  It’s impossible to get away from those two topics if you’re following LGBT news, but this book also turned my focus to another problem–that the most-covered “alternative” issues, those focused on individual rights, are still not the most important priority.  Employment and housing discrimination are important but they focus on the middle class.  Hate crimes are a problem, but the kneejerk response of hate crimes legislationtries to solve that problem by using the same harmful official system that terrorizes queer and trans people on a daily basis. I would recommend this book to any activist, but especially to white, middle-class activists in the “LGBT movement.”  The pieces in this anthology encourage us to get away from the white, middle-class idea of “safety.”  Strong sentences for hate crimes don’t make us safer.  Nor do most of the priorities of LGBT rights organizations.  It is only from a privileged position that we can even believe that there might be a safe, mainstream, assimilated place to work and live. Conservatives and moderates in the movement, and outside of it, want you to feel safe.  It’s another story of us versus them: it helps those who are disgusted by trans people of color, by poor queer youth, by public queer sexualities, to tug the most powerful and heavily funded segments of the LGBT population away into a zone of “safety” and assimilation.  Of course, many queer and trans people don’t have that luxury, and it’s foolish to think that any of us really do.  Queer and trans people in prison, juveniles in the child “welfare” system, immigrants, sex workers, the homeless, and other marginalized groups are often victims of a cruel and unusual system that targets minorities and encourages oppression.  The words “cruel and unusual” bring me to the second reason why this review is so timely.  Today, the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed a district court in finding that a law denying trans prisoners hormone treatment or sex reassignment surgery constitutes cruel and unusual punishment under the Eighth Amendment to the US Constitution.  This is an exciting victory, but it’s also not enough. Cruel and unusual punishment goes beyond the specific case of denying medical treatment to prisoners with “severe” cases of Gender Identity Disorder (a term that, thankfully, is up for a change in the DSM-V).  The way the entire medical, legal, and government establishments medicalize, criminalize, and problematize queer and trans bodies is cruel and unusual.  This case is an important step as evidenced by the horrific stories in Captive Genders about trans people being denied hormones, surgery, and even HIV/AIDS treatment, but the opinion still problematizes trans bodies.  The medical model says that to qualify for surgery, one must demonstrate gender in a certain way.  There is little room for creativity or subjective experience.  A trans body under this model is something to feel pity over, the familiar narrative of being “trapped.” Examples of problematizing queer and trans bodies abound in the anthology.  In family law, Wesley Ware describes how the child’s “best interest” turns into protection from gender variance and children in the system are subjected to “sexual-identity confusion counseling,” where queerness is seen as a “symptom” and queer and trans identities are “pathologized.”  This is particularly true for queer and trans youth of color, who were, in Audre Lorde’s words, “never meant to survive.”  In prison, Michelle C. Potts describes the use of blood as an excuse to segregate HIV-positive prisoners, with measures as extreme as not allowing openly gay prisoners (regardless of health status) to serve food.  Lori A. Saffin describes these insidious sorts of homophobia and transphobia as a form of spirit murder, which I found particularly apt. One of my law school professors, Adrien Wing, taught the concept of spirit murder as a slow build-up of collective psychological and emotional pain over time.  Spirit murder and spirit injury  come up in the context of violence in or towards a community–for example, the overall effect of rape on black women.  They are so destructive because they prey not only on an individual but on an identity and even an entire culture.  An individual doesn’t have to experience direct harm to be a victim of spirit murder.  The collective harm of many, many physical assaults or assaults on identity instead contribute to the slow murder of a community’s collective soul.  This concept is easy to apply to queer and trans people, as over time many of us come to accept state harm and the idea that our bodies and identities are criminal, sick, or simply wrong. This problematizing of queer and trans bodies is severe and all-encompassing.  Furthermore, the mainstream LGBT movement contributes to this problem by failing to recognize the structural nature of homophobic/transphobic oppression.  We need to ground queer activism in the experience of those most marginalized, as Jennifer Worley describes in the example of the Vanguard in 1970s San Francisco.  When we look at queer/trans issues as a class problem, we see how those at the bottom of the ladder are ignored, erased, or attacked while higher-up (mostly) gays and lesbians who assimilate are accepted in the mainstream culture.  Erica R. Meiners uses James Baldwin’s wording to describe this assimilation at the expense of others as “the price of the ticket.”  Those who want the benefits of mainstream culture have to accept its priorities, and often don’t notice the harms going on within the broader queer/trans community. “Over the years,” Yasmin Nair explains, “especially beginning in the mid-1990s, the ‘gay rights movement’ has become a perfect replica of the neoliberal state.”  This trend is easy to see, as mainstream media images focus on how gays and lesbians are “just like you,” and those who don’t look “just like” those in charge are demonized–people of color, “promiscuous” bisexuals, gender-deviant trans and genderqueer people, immigrants, indigenous queers, people with disabilities, child-free and polyamorous individuals, etc.  Rather than focusing on how the prison-industrial complex harms pretty much everyone, it’s easy for some to imagine the PIC as doing its job of keeping the “undesirable” elements out and protecting, rather than attacking, queer communities. The good news is that there are some solutions.  Captive Genders argues for abolition through a number of pieces, some authored by those who have been in prison themselves.  Other strategies include pen-pal programs to offer support to queer and trans prisoners and coalition-building with anti-racism and general anti-prison groups.  Reading about the way Canadian queers in the 1980s appropriated sexual spaces like the bathhouse to create a social space or a queer home, I began to think about how we might offer support through online forums.  We can also change the conversation through our blogging, writing, and community activism.  When we talk about “queer issues,” we can include prison abolition, racial justice, and other issues that have not typically been considered queer.  A personal, collective response seems to be the most apt way to address such an individualist, capitalist, impersonal problem. books trans AK press book reviews captive genders favorite posts prison abolition prison industrial complex radical politics radical reading trans in prison transgender Review: Captive Genders For me, there is no outward presentation that “matches” genderqueer.  I don’t use the term genderqueer in a way that means “androgynous,” or “mixing male and female traits or symbols.”  There is no way for me to dress in a way that reflects my gender, but that’s okay. There’s no reason that gender should be the thing that dress reflects.  In our society, clothing is a very gendered thing, but I don’t think it has to be.  For me, certain “femme” clothes reflect my personal preferences best.  It’s not about gender, it’s about what I like.  I feel sexy in clothes that are labelled “female.” But wearing these clothes can be a traumatic experience for me.  Why?  People tend to read clothes as a gender marker.  It’s hard to dress as femme and not be taken as female, especially when your body and facial features are considered “female.”  For me, dressing as femme is a radical act, but others’ reactions to me in femme wear put me in a different place–a place of shame, embarrassment, nerves, and feeling misgendered as female.  Societal expectations for women crowd around me when I dress femme.  I also feel the disappointment of those around me who are queer, trans, genderqueer, or attracted to androgyny.  I often feel that I am not attractive to those I want to be attractive to in femme clothing. When I wear suits and ties, I am hot shit in my community.  Femme women often come up to me, flirt, want to dance, want to get to know me.  Cute, androgynous individuals are a hot commodity among queers.  Others make me feel safe, wanted, and welcomed.  Often, they are physically affectionate, and I love that.  I love being petted and hugged up on and flirted with. Dressed in femme gear, I don’t really attract femme women in the way I’d like.  I want to be some powerful girly girl’s adorable genderqueer arm candy, but I get skipped over when I’m wearing a dress.  Their eyes go to someone in a tie, and I don’t know how to approach anyone.  I just feel small and scared.  How can I express that what I wear has nothing to do with my gender or my sexual orientation?  I’d need a sign. There’s a lot of talk in genderqueer communities about “matching,” figuring out how to look neither boy nor girl, or both.  But I’d like to hear from those of us who look like we “match” the gender into which we were raised, and how to stay confident in our gender regardless of that. gender trans androgyny attraction favorite posts femme genderqueer genderqueer fashion style Genderqueer and Femme In my last post, I asked the theoretical question, do gender differences exist?  I concluded that there are observable trends that group people more-or-less by gender, but that identifying with a particular gender doesn’t mean that one identifies with every trait society assigns to that gender, and that gender categorization can be damaging both to those who do and do not identify as male or female. Next, I’d like to consider the policy implications of the question. The challenge here is to question whether gender differences have any utility from a policy perspective, while still respecting the lived experiences and claimed identities of those who identify as male or female.  I can say that gender differences are illusory, that the “box” created by a lump of traits is in many ways artificial, and that the weight put on certain traits such as secondary sex characteristics and hormones obscures the actual diversity that exists in our society.  But while saying this, I have to recognize that the categories “male” and “female” do mean something for many people, perhaps most, and that these categories can be useful when setting policy, organizing, or doing activist work. So “male” and “female” can be helpful categories for practical purposes, but I would like to argue that an exclusively gendered perspective is bad policy. I think that in almost, if not all cases, we can look at a problem or a potential structure as activists, organizers, writers, or policy-makers and use a more nuanced strategy to plan an approach.  It’s important to take a challenge on its face and determine what the best way to define a population is for that given challenge, rather than picking gender as a default.  Then, if gender is relevant, it’s important to look at other factors, to determine whether the population is broader or narrower than “male” or “female,” and whether other types of groupings within those populations might have different needs. An exclusively gendered perspective tends to do two things: one, it leaves members of the relevant population out, and two, it erases subgroups within a population. The first point can be illustrated fairly easily with some examples.  The definition of “woman” is constantly coming up whenever a feminist group decides to hold a women-only event, or create a women-only space, or provide a service for women.  Often, trans women are excluded in these cases, when trans women are frequently the members of the relevant population most in need of services.  If feminist organizers were to use the thing they were planning (say, a safe space for women) as a starting point, they would inevitably see that trans women (and often, trans people generally) have an obvious need for that thing.  Using a safe space as an example, the point is to create a space free of harassment, gendered insults, rape, sexism, etc.  It’s hard to see how trans people aren’t in need of this kind of space. Another obvious example is health care.  Health care needs are difficult to segregate based on gender, because health care needs depend on a huge number of factors, including one’s physical body, hormones, lifestyle, genetics, etc.  When a health care service such as OBGYN care, pregnancy prevention counseling, or abortion is framed as a service “for women,” those who don’t identify as women are excluded from services they need.  The doctor’s office is a scary space for many trans, genderqueer, intersex, and otherwise gender-nonconforming people because there is no guarantee that the health care provider will respect an individual’s gender, understand it, or provide appropriate services.  If campaigns intended to address health risks and needed services used more gender-neutral language, even directly targeting trans, genderqueer, and intersex folks, they would likely be more successful in reaching the entire intended population. Health is also a good example of the second problem, that of erasing subgroups within the population in favor of the majority’s (or most visible group’s) needs.  Gender and health don’t just come up in the context of reproductive health services.  Almost every time I read an article at work about public health, risks of disease, or prevention strategies, it is framed by gender.  These articles almost always mention the relative risk for males and females, state that the risk is the same, or point out flaws in studies that don’t include enough men or enough women.  Because gender is used as a shorthand, I have no idea whether the reason for a differential risk is hormones, genetics, physical structures, brain chemistry, or something else, and thus I can’t evaluate my own risk because I don’t have a “normal” grouping of all these things to create the “female” shorthand.  But this isn’t the only problem with the shorthand. Medical and public health studies very frequently have a race problem.  In all but the largest studies, you’ll see a mention that not enough respondents for at least one racial group were available.  There are also invisible minorities that aren’t mentioned–people with disabilities, people with less access to healthcare, non-English speakers, indigenous people, etc. etc.  People with common co-morbities are sometimes excluded from clinical trials, as well.  A particular subgroup might be mentioned, but in almost every study I read, some important group is left out.  When the study population is casually grouped as “women” or “men,” someone may read the study and assume that the results apply–when in fact, for example, a black working class women’s likelihood of contracting an illness might be much closer to a black working class man’s likelihood than to that of a white middle class woman. While it is obvious that resources are scarce, and no writer or activist or organizer can account for every single possible subgroup, it is important to consider one’s limitations and make a note of them.  It’s also smart policy to consider the topic at hand, and then choose an appropriate way to categorize populations.  If subgroups might have different needs, it’s easy to at the very least point that out and suggest that others focus on those needs.  If a gender group is being used for a particular reason, such as biology, mental health, emotional needs, physical strength, brain chemistry, or anything else, it’s better to point that out directly than to use gender as a shorthand. Thanks for reading.  If anyone has thoughts on these questions or suggestions on how to implement better policies, I’d welcome a discussion in comments or on Twitter.  You can find me @queerscholar. gender trans activism gender difference genderqueer men vs. women non binary policy Policy Perspective: Do Gender Differences Exist? These days, it seems like I can’t get away from headlines about men vs. women, discussing everything from biology to health to relationship preferences to shopping habits.  It’s easy to feel erased when everything you read groups behavior of men vs. behavior of women, and you don’t fit into either of those categories.  But is there a reason to organize the world in this way?  Do gender differences exist? In this post, I’ll address the the theoretical question of whether gender differences exist, and then, in a second post, I’ll ask the policy question of whether there’s any utility to using gender differences on a practical level. So, are there gender differences?  Well, yes, simply put.  They aren’t black and white, and of course we can’t say that all men do x and all women do y about anything whatsoever.  But there are observable trends, which is unsurprising given our tendency as a society to group absolutely everything by gender. These trends are both informed by, and perpetuate, our tendency to use gender as the primary category when we organize our world.  They erase those of us who are in between male and female, or outside of that system, because there is a tendency to try to push anyone who doesn’t fit into the box with everyone else.  There was a recent post on Genderfork by someone who noted that zie is happy not passing, and I can relate to that, because there is so much pressure to “pass” as one gender or another, to climb into either box. Genderqueer people are still, for the most part, raised as one gender or another.  We are also perceived, for the most part, as one gender at a time.  Most people are not comfortable seeing someone as not gendered, or bigendered, or as a third gender, and so society encourages us to second-guess our own identity as falling outside of the gender system. As a genderqueer person raised female, I often have an internal struggle with things I enjoy, do, or wear that are categorized by others as “female.”  I sometimes feel guilty when I do something that feels gendered–for example, when I wear a dress–but I have to remind myself that how I organize the world is a choice.  I can consciously reject gender, and resist being labeled “female.”  What I have to do is reject my brain’s tendency towards confirmation bias–that little societal trigger that sees a female behavior and tries to offer this as evidence that I am really female, that my alternate way of seeing the world is a sham.  This built-in mechanism perpetuates gender categories, but categorization is always a choice. So back to the original question–do gender differences exist?  Here’s how I see it. If most “women” see themselves in most of the traits that we label “female,” then a gender category emerges.  The members of the category–women–don’t have to recognize themselves in every trait, or even a vast majority.  There might even be some female traits that no women, or very few women, relate to, but as long as there’s a big bunch of traits that many women identify with, the category stays alive.  If Woman A identifies with X and Y, and Woman B identifies with Y and Z, and Woman C identifies with X and Z, then we could probably come up with a category “woman” that consists of X, Y, Z, and Q, and Women A, B, and C would likely go with that. Those minority traits sneak in there because women (or men–the same is true for both gender categories) are encouraged to be silent about the traits that don’t match them.  There is pressure to be gendered, and so it’s understood that there are “female” traits that not all women share.  Another tendency is for subgroups like “tomboy” to form, so that those who relate to fewer traits still identify as female gendered, and don’t rock the boat too much.  Finally, some women may try to conform to traits they don’t share, to feel more comfortable in their gender, with their peers, or for whatever other reason. Also, all traits are not created equal.  Some traits have huge weight, making it hard for someone labeled “female” to consider alternatives.  For example, a person who has breasts, hips, and a vulva, who menstruates and produces “female” hormones, is likely to consider these traits of far greater importance in determining gender than personality traits.  Hence “women can do anything,” “women can be aggressive,” etc. rather than “women can do everything men can do, but also there are other options outside of male and female.” Personally, I have quite a vast majority of “female” traits.  I have never identified with a transmasculine perspective, which is probably why it took me a while to identify as genderqueer and while I still don’t identify with a genderqueer community.  All things equal, I prefer “female” colors, fashions, and hobbies.  I’m shy and prefer to be the “passive” one in relationships.  I love baking.  When I get emotional, I cry and am sad, and I almost never experience anger.  Initially, I tried being more masculine to signal or bolster my gender difference, because it is so much easier to signal difference with clear cues.  It’s much easier to “look masculine” than to look agendered. When I read these articles comparing men and women, never mentioning alternatives or alternative ways of grouping human beings, I sometimes question the validity of my identity because I do see myself in a lot of the “female” traits mentioned.  Beyond feeling erased because my chosen identity is never mentioned, being genderqueer takes away any authority I have to speak as someone who has the specific traits mentioned.  I don’t get to have an opinion because the article is about men and women, and I am neither.  Like relationship articles with the “heterosexual only” disclaimer at the beginning, anything that contrasts two genders takes away my authority to speak on the subject, even if I see myself in the article in some other way. In part two, I’ll ask whether the men vs. women distinction has any utility from a policy perspective.  Please stay tuned! gender trans favorite posts gender difference genderqueer men vs. women non binary Theoretical Perspective: Do Gender Differences Exist? Is there such a thing as legible identity privilege? This thought was tumbling around a lot in my mind for a while, particularly in discussions of what it means to be femme and presumed as female, but also when cis folks would ask me about assuming pronouns when you’re “pretty sure you know” someone’s gender versus when it’s unclear. As a starter, I’ll say that if there is a legible identity privilege, it’s certainly not anything like as strong as other privileges such as being white. As a white non-binary person, I am less vulnerable to violence and harassment than any black or brown person, full stop. I explicitly reject any arguments that white non-binary people make around “binarism” putting them in a riskier place than a black trans woman, for example. See b. binaohan for why that’s fucked up. But considering this as its own possible thing, I have a few thoughts. One is that, like “passing privilege,” this has a lot to do with specific cultural context and how other people perceive you. The two are also related. A trans man who is presumed to be a cis man might experience “passing privilege” alongside legible identity privilege, because he “passes” for a cis man and also “man” is a legible identity. Conversely, a trans woman who doesn’t conform to particular beauty standards and expectations might not “pass” for a cis woman, but could have a legible identity in cultural context–it is clear to most people around her that she intends to be read as a woman, and she is a woman.  My own experience is that I do experience “passing privilege,” because in most situations the people around me think that I’m a cis woman and thus aren’t going to be violent towards me or otherwise mess with me because of my gender, but I don’t experience legible identity privilege, because I have a non-binary identity that does not “match up with” any particular outward expression. There’s nothing I can wear that makes people think “oh, of course! squishy pink queer non-binary robot femme from an unknown planet, duh.”  If this is a thing though, I think it’s both a matter of degree, and probably results in fewer external consequences on its own than other kinds of privilege. The main consequence I’ve noticed is emotional, the frustration of what Melissa Harris-Perry calls misrecognition. It’s frustrating that I can’t communicate my identity to others through my dress or mannerisms, but no one’s going to deck me because my identity is illegible. Those who do experience violence because their gender expression “doesn’t make sense” to cis folks are suffering from the consequences of not “passing” as a legible gender, I think, rather than directly from having an illegible identity. Folks whose identity is illegible might be less likely to dress in a way that leads to “passing,” certainly, but not necessarily. I also imagine that a whole range of folks could suffer from not having full legible identity privilege, though degree may vary. Femme queer women aren’t often read as queer, for example, by those outside the queer community. Butch women might be incorrectly read as men, or as non-binary. Straight femme men are often read as gay. But I’m not sure this is quite the same–there’s probably a difference between having an identity that can’t be communicated in our culture’s language of signs and symbols and having one that could be communicated but the person doesn’t feel comfortable expressing with the signs and symbols society deems to “match” the identity. Thoughts? Leave a comment! trans identity non binary passing privilege Legible Identity Privilege One of the trickier things about queer movements, unsurprisingly, is finding the words to describe ourselves, our community, and those around us.  Words are incredibly important to many people in terms of self-definition and claiming membership in a community, but the words to describe gender and sexuality are often new and have different definitions depending on who you talk to. One thing I just saw at work, though, in an interesting CDC report on health disparities, is a definite linguistic gaffe. Although Healthy People 2010 specifies that health disparities include “differences that occur by gender, race or ethnicity, education or income, disability, geographic location, or sexual orientation,” only a limited number of regularly published national- or state-level health reports include information on sexual orientation (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, or heterosexual identity) as a demographic variable for comparison. Since when is “transsexual” a sexual orientation?  There are some differences in opinion on the meaning of words like transsexual and transgendered, but I’m pretty sure most people commonly understand “sexual orientation” to relate in some way to sexual desire and/or sexual partners.  Trans* identities, on the other hand, refer to an individual’s gender identity.  Can we get this right, CDC?  It’s bad enough to lump “T” in with “LGB,” while simultaneously ignoring trans peoples’ needs and priorities.  But I think it’s even more egregious to suddenly refer to trans* as a sexual orientation, as if trans people didn’t have sexual orientations in addition to gender identity.  It’s part of a broader trend of ignoring the sex lives of trans people and assuming that a trans person’s identity is entirely constructed around hir gender identity/transition.  To me, it feels dehumanizing. trans gender health disparities language sexual orientation transgender Transsexual Is Not a Sexual Orientation There’s been a lot about children and gender identity on my radar screen lately, from stores with gender-neutral children’s clothing to the media ridiculousness surrounding little Shiloh to the tragic murder of a 16-month-old little boy whose mother’s boyfriend didn’t think the infant was “man” enough.  I’ve also been tapping into my own inner-child potential as I try to resolve issues with depression and finding my gender identity. Childhood, ideally, is all about play.  Children who are given safe spaces to exercise their curiosity and explore their surroundings as they grow up are more likely to be well-adjusted adults.  Adults, in fact, could learn something from children.  It’s amazing how a problem changes shape and how solutions present themselves when you take a step back and approach the problem with your imagination guns a blazin’. And that’s the thing about childhood.  Imagination doesn’t do well with boxes.  It’s about exploring possibilities, playing, learning.  As we get older, society draws lines and we all learn where those lines lie.  We learn that boys do this and girls do this, and we learn behaviors that society considers “appropriate” to our gender.  And for those of us who don’t feel 100% comfortable with our gender, it may take years to unwrap those neat little packages we’ve been dressed up in and try to find who we are, independent of this thing called “gender.”  It may take a lot of play. education gender trans childhood creativity favorite posts gender neutral education gender neutral parenting non binary children trans children trans youth transgender Gender and the Potential of Children Yes, I know I’ve kind of abandoned ship lately.  But never fear, I shall return!  I only have a month left of law school so I’m hunkering down and then joyously returning to blogging. That said, I really wanted to get a quickie out there for the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia, which is focusing on transphobia this year.  I thought this was particularly appropriate for me personally, because in the past year I’ve been thinking a lot about gender identity and am very thirsty at this point to learn more. Though I was always conscious of the “T” in LGBT, I think I’ve spent a lot of time being at least partially transphobic, and very trans-ignorant.  The Global Arc of Justice conference really helped me understand how broad the fight for transgender rights is, though, and some personal acquaintances as well as some books I read helped clarify what gender identity is really about.  There are a lot of different ways to experience gender – it isn’t just male, female, FTM, or MTF.  Some people identify entirely as their “destination gender” after transition, and don’t want to be referred to in any other way.  Some identify strongly as transmen or transwomen.  Some prefer something more fluid, and don’t identify as trans but rather as genderqueer or something similar.  Some go from being a “straight male” to a lesbian, some from “straight female” to straight male, some stay bisexual or pansexual the whole way through.  Though I don’t think our society has very many set-in-stone stereotypes about gender identity, because we tend to simply cover up the variations, it’s definitely a bigger world than I initially thought, and it’s important to recognize these differences when thinking about discrimination, rights, and/or the law. There have been some great steps in the law lately, perhaps most notably the House’s passage of the Matthew Shepard Act (c’mon, Senate!)  A lot of people think of this as a hate crimes bill to protect gay and lesbian people, and it does expand our protection, but actually we’ve already got a lot of it.  Trans and intersex folks have nada.  So this law would be a great step, but at the same time, there are a lot of things that need to happen that aren’t happening.  We need to educate ourselves about gender and not be afraid to discuss it, to ask questions, to teach our kids about different gender identities.  We need to educate law enforcement (big time).  And those of us who don’t really understand need to ask, read, educate ourselves, and become activists.  We also need to learn to listen.  I think a lot of people in the LGBT movement (myself being one) have a tendency to think we know what transpeople need (and intersex people, if we even consider their existence).  We lump transfolks into the gay rights movement and then get bitchy when they intrude on our women-only space.  I admit that when I first heard about the Michigan Womyn’s Music Festival incident, I was a little unsure about my opinion.  I wasn’t sure I wanted someone with a penis in a woman-only space, because I will freely admit that I hate and deeply fear the penis at this point in my life. But on the other hand, well, that’s my problem.  I need to get over it, or not show up.  We don’t have a right to identify as women if we’re going to exclude others who choose to do so.  My own acceptance is coming along slowly, and I appreciate any help from trans, intersex, and genderqueer folk who have advice or opinions, but I also know that it’s not your responsibility to fix my fuckups.  I think we all need to take responsibility for the discrimination and plain stupidity we’ve exercised in the past, and figure out how to do better in the future.  Hopefully this year’s IDAHO focus will be a strong first step. homophobia trans hate crimes IDAHO intersex legal political transgender transphobia IDAHO Here’s my current theory of how the medical establishment thinks about gender identity and transition:   Gender is pretty abstract. It’s more of a decision to group oneself in a certain way than a concrete provable fact. This is a problem. We can’t just let anyone who wants to medically transition. How would we know who “qualifies” if we just let anyone who believes themselves to be male or female access medical care for that gender? Transition would be rampant! (Or something.) Since we need a requirement to access medical care, masculinity or femininity might as well be the requirement. It’s easiest to quantify your gender in medical terms if you present as masculine or feminine. Femme trans boys and butch trans girls are just confusing. Don’t even get us started on those genderqueers–especially those who aren’t interested in a more androgynous. What do they even want? What kind of dysphoria could they possibly be experiencing? There is very little to be sympathetic to, here.  Now I know there are empathetic medical professionals, professionals who understand the difference between identity and expression, and those who don’t think of trans people as requiring a certain level of tragedy and pity to medically transition. But sometimes, it feels like the profession is stacked against us. trans gatekeeping medicine transgender Gatekeeping Fact: this blogging thing never does get easier. I keep hoping that consistent posting will one day become natural, that I’ll be able to write and schedule posts every weekend, but that is just not a thing. I’m being honest with myself about emotional and mental labor, and the fact that this world we live in doesn’t give us enough time to heal and just be present outside of our paid working hours. I’m also realizing that as an ADD adult, my attention span will never stick with a particular project for more than a month or two, and that’s okay. This blog isn’t going anywhere, though. I have a post scheduled for this coming week, in fact, about a really fantastic book I want you to read. I’m just acknowledging that I’ll probably never follow the best practices of posting regularly and self-promoting, that there will be spurts of activity and then months-long gaps as there have always been. But I’ve also been blogging for more than ten years in some form, so I think that’s likely to stay. There’s another fact in here, which is that I’m not totally comfortable being “a voice” in activist spaces when we don’t as a community acknowledge the labor of people of color who are doing most of the work here. I recently wrestled with the question of whether to write a book about non-binary gender and ultimately decided that I am not the person to write that book right now–because I don’t have the time and energy to do a full, comprehensive survey of non-binary people, focused on the voices of people of color, and the world just doesn’t need a white centered 101 to non-binary identity. I also think that if I do write that book in the future, I likely can’t in good conscience do it without a co-author of color. Since I don’t have collaboration/social spoons right now, I’m instead stepping back. If you’re hungry for queer voices, I recommend you start with checking out black girl dangerous and proceed from there. trans personal An Update with Some Honesty About Spoons As this post goes live, I’ll be sharing a talk at AlterConf DC called “5 Simple Steps for Trans-Inclusive Data.” This talk originally crept into my brain as an idea for a very long blog post, and as I was preparing to cut that idea down to twenty minutes with Q&A time, I decided to also execute the original plan, since I can’t possibly say everything I want to about how to make data more trans-inclusive in fifteen minutes.  The post that follows is a detailed guide of specific steps you can take to make whatever data you work with more trans-inclusive, building off of the talk content. Skim through the list below and use any tips that you find applicable! I’m drawing from my experience working with member and donor data at national non-profit organizations, but you can apply this advice to any kind of human-centered data you collect including data on customers, employees, patients, survey respondents, and app users. My starting point here is that trans people can show up in any data set, and so it’s important to address the needs we have around privacy, comfort, and affirmation not as a special population but as a regular part of data strategy. Rather than othering trans people, consider our experiences an opportunity to improve your data collection, storage, and analysis practices for everyone! If you’d like to hear more after reading the tips below, check out my speaking page for more information. I’m hoping to do more “dataqueer” talks and workshops in the future.    Balance needs carefully when asking about gender  There is no one right answer to make your data trans-inclusive: what data you can respectfully collect and how you ask for it depends on your purpose Ask: what are my/the organization’s/the company’s present and future needs?  In what context will you need someone’s name, pronoun, identity, gender marker, etc. for your current purpose or in the future? For example: if you need to book someone’s flight or submit a legal form on their behalf, you may need to ask for a name that would be irrelevant if all you need to know is what someone would like to be called   Ask: why do I need this piece of data (for each piece you want to collect)?   Make sure the question you ask on your form or survey is both specific enough and general enough based on what you actually need to know Example: if you’re trying to decide whether to ask if someone is “LGBT” versus trans-identified, consider whether you offer any additional benefit or tailored programming specific to trans folks, or whether potentially including trans folks separately in analysis could be beneficial and lead to more inclusion (rather than just wanting data for its own sake) Disclosure can be burdensome and risky, so do a cost-benefit analysis and be sure that any information you collect is for a purpose     Think ahead about potential changes to data structure  It’s always harder to migrate data to a smarter structure later than it is to take the time to think about it now, so keep your future needs in mind  If you ask a broad question and later want more specific data, you will have outliers that you may have to discard–for example, if you ask about transgender identity broadly and later want to do gender-specific outreach But if you ask a very specific question that you won’t ever need, then later go broad, it’s dangerous to assume that each narrow category goes neatly into the “umbrella” — for example, not all genderqueer people identify as transgender, and not all trans people want to be lumped under the “LGBT” acronym   Consider your audience in advance  Does your data collection question make sense to your entire audience? Is your question culturally inclusive (examples: masculine-of-center vs. “AFAB trans people”, inclusion of indigenous and non-white terms)? Ask actual members of the community and do your research   Consider offering alternatives to mediate the tensions between data that is possible to analyze effectively and allowing folks to self-define  For gender, you can offer male/female/something else but also offer a free text box for a more complete description If possible, let people identify with multiple communities (for example, someone can be trans, female, queer, and intersex simultaneously)   Develop an advanced plan for what to do if you receive external data that doesn’t conform to your structure   Ask for gender, pronouns, and name contextually  Many trans people answer these questions differently depending on who’s asking and why they want to know — for example, name might vary for:  Phone and mail correspondence vs. online correspondence, particularly if you live with someone who isn’t aware of your trans status Official purposes such as filing legal documents, booking a flight, charging a credit card, or issuing a tax receipt: be as specific as possible about your purpose if you need this information and consider destroying later Public recognition such as a badge name or donor acknowledgement   Asking for this information contextually doesn’t just benefit trans people — it works well for nicknames, married name, and those who use different names depending on cultural or social context Label fields as clearly as possible and keep original context on the backend  Give the user help text to understand what you’re asking and how you’ll use the data — and give them a chance to opt out If a backend field label doesn’t say everything about how the information was collected, add a description — it’s easy to get confused later    If you need a lot of alternative fields, you may want to leave them all visible to everyone as a teaching moment, or consider a link like “I go by different names in different situations” that allows folks to expand their options on a form without stigmatizing or othering Avoid value-laden and overly general language like “real,” “birth,” “legal,” or “preferred” — not only can it be offensive, but it’s also easy to forget how you’ve promised to use the data later and makes it hard to clearly update Train staff and volunteers so they’re not surprised, for example, if someone has two “differently gendered” names or wants to change their name or gender identity in your database  This also helps when you’re looking for duplicates in your data, since many folks who work with data aren’t aware that two records with “differently gendered” first names could be duplicates!     Avoid outing and protect privacy  Honestly evaluate the security of your systems (technological and human) and be transparent with users about the degree of privacy they can expect Only take data that you actually need so users have a choice not to disclose sensitive information (optional fields are your friend!) If you’re going to publish demographic statistics, make sure those you’re collecting data from are aware and can opt out  Even if you have consent, be aware of sample size and find ways to smooth data or let a respondent know if publishing data that includes gender/trans identity might make their responses obvious (on satisfaction or HR surveys with few trans respondents, for example)   If you need information for a one-time purpose, such as name and gender marker for booking a flight, offer to destroy that data after a certain period of time for everyone or those who request it–and make sure you actually do destroy it Train staff and volunteers to be aware of privacy concerns: even just sharing a list of legal names, for example, could be a huge violation of privacy   Replace othering with universal design   At an event, include pronouns on everyone’s name badge Avoid asking for gender or a title (Mr./Ms./Mrs.) if you don’t absolutely need it Make it very easy to update data such as name, username, or gender  Whenever possible, allow self-updating online  Make it clear how to update data, rather than burying the instructions While they aren’t always, usernames can be gendered and thus as important to change as a first name  If removing the old data from the system entirely will possibly cause problems in the future, such as not recognizing a duplicate record with an old name and potentially using that name in the future, be transparent about your purpose for keeping the data, offer options, and lock the old data down to as few people as possible    Refuse to work with database or integrated platform vendors who won’t provide the custom fields and update options you need   If at all possible, don’t compromise on the data structure and plan you’ve developed because a vendor standardizes fields Instead, spend your money with more flexible vendors   If you work with partner organizations or companies and share data, encourage them to adopt similar policies and practices around this data rather than designing your system to incorporate their more standardized data sets     Have additional questions? Want to share your own thoughts around making data practices more trans and/or queer inclusive? Comment below, Tweet me @queeractivist, or use the hashtag #dataqueer. trans alterconf data analysis data collection data management dataqueer trans data trans tech Practical Tips for Trans-Inclusive Data I finally got my iPhone to successfully play Invisibilia, a much-lauded new podcast from the producers of This American Life. Overall, I really like the show, but I was disappointed and even a bit disturbed by the story in “The Power of Categories” focusing on Paige, a bi-gender person. It’s hard to put a finger on exactly why I feel this way. The hosts cover Paige’s story sympathetically, and seem to have done their research. It’s for the most part a scientific take on the topic. But maybe that’s why, as a genderfluid, genderqueer, non-binary person who can’t quite even pick one word to describe my gender, it rankled me.  The scientific approach put the tone of the show firmly in the realm of “look at this weird medical curiosity,” rather than talking about bigender people (or non-binary people more broadly) as a large and diverse group, a population of people with various takes on gender and their own lives. While they seemed to do a decent job with the facts of Paige’s story, often letting Paige speak in the first person, they also hold tight to that one story, and a linear narrative of one person’s particular gender experience. The story has ups and downs but ultimately clings to a narrative where categorization–particularly, categorization along gender lines in the system of the dominant culture–is a success. Paige feels relief when she ultimately settles into a female identity, and I imagine the unfamiliar listener is called back to the point earlier in the episode where the opinion of some medical professionals that bigender people are really just “regular transgender people” (i.e., binary folks) is mentioned. I don’t want to cast aspersions on Paige’s personal story. I don’t blame her for feeling relief, particularly in a world that so firmly pushes against non-binary experiences of gender. But it bothers me that the hosts chose to wrap the story up neatly with a bow in that way, noting how hard it is to live outside categories, without even mentioning those who do live outside the typical gender boxes and the fact that we also have needs. The medical, scientific bent of the piece casts non-binary people in a very, very strange light. We become part of a broader psychological commentary on how categories work, without much emphasis on how categories are often cultural, or how the human mind has an enormous capacity for re-categorizing, developing different sorts of categories, or shifting from one realm of categories to another to meet actual experience. Speaking on categories in general, one of the hosts notes that when things aren’t organized into legible categories, “they’re in a shape we don’t recognize.” This, I think, is where Invisibilia missed an opportunity. Because the hosts actually have the pretty powerful ability to reach thousands (maybe millions) of people and offer that recognition. The hosts could have allowed multiple non-binary people to speak on the importance of recognition, and to offer ideas on how those who are unfamiliar with this experience can recognize us. Many of us don’t want to change, because we recognize ourselves. I know myself, as an individual, as a person named Avory who has a gender that perhaps can’t be easily described in categorical terms. I invite the people in my life to get to know what that gender is, and in turn who I am. This is recognition at a level beyond the surface, something that we all fundamentally want. This kind of recognition is crucial to our mental health. It is no wonder that without it, many trans people, many women of color, many First Nations people, many people with disabilities, experience mental illness and disease. Lack of recognition can literally be deadly. When the hosts of Invisibilia talk about bigender experience, they talk about something that “happens to” Paige. Maybe in Paige’s experience, this is accurately how her journey felt. But it was the hosts and producers of this show that made a decision to feature, in a piece about the invisible population of non-binary people, this one triumphant story of a woman who came with relief to fit into a category again. Something about that decision feels, to me, like a glaring case of misrecognition. trans Invisibilia non binary NPR Thoughts from an Uncategorized Non-Binary Person on Invisibilia’s Bigender “Categories” Story When the folks at Facebook reached out a few months ago to ask me to create one of the first handful of rooms on their new smartphone-based social platform, called Rooms, I immediately wondered if this might be a better way to implement the vision we started working toward with #transchat on Twitter. Today I’m excited to announce the debut of a Room called Trans at the Intersections, which you can join by using the image in this post within the Rooms app. Facebook says, “Rooms lets you create places for the things that you’re into,” and I think it’s pretty cool that one of the first Rooms will be an explicitly anti-racist, radical space where trans people can get past the 101 and talk amongst ourselves about our lives at the intersection of trans and other identities. I hope this will be a space for talking about racism in Trans communities, discussing trans feminisms, sharing ideas about sexuality outside the binary, and other topics we think about from day to day. You don’t have to identify with the word “trans” to join, since that umbrella term itself can be problematic, but members should somehow identify as outside the compulsory white mainstream gender system whether trans, non-conforming, non-binary, or something else entirely. The potential of this platform is something like what many of us fondly remember from 90s message boards–you can choose any pseudonym to identify yourself in the Room, and thus don’t have to come out outside this Room. Unlike Twitter, this is a curated space, meaning that any derailing, racist, and/or transmisogyny will not be tolerated, and members engaging in this bad behavior can be banned. I’ll be actively seeking curators in the coming weeks. For now, come join the discussion! You can download the app at rooms.me/download, and then just use the image in this post to join the Room.  **Note: while we will try our best to curate fairly and avoid privacy violations, I want to recognize that it isn’t possible to create a truly “safe space.” You don’t have to disclose identifying info or join Facebook to use Rooms, but anything you share could be shared publicly and linked to your pseudonym. It’s also not possible to know to certain that those who join aren’t transphobic jerks who are trolling the Room silently for content to share, so I would recommend using a unique pseudonym of this is a concern. Please let me know about any other safety/privacy concerns that I can address!** trans #transchat Rooms Rooms app social media trans groups Trans at the Intersections, #transchat Reimagined on the Rooms App It’s #TERFWeek, which at first made me cringe, until I realized that the week is about educating the broader feminist community about the harmfulness of TERFs (trans-exclusionary radical feminists). This is a group of people, mostly women, many lesbians or queer-identified, who claim to be feminist, yet exclude trans women, one of the most marginalized and oppressed groups of women, from their communities. They’re usually the ones arguing that trans women in the women’s room or in lesbian groups or at MichFest are dangerous, often have weird convoluted mental requirements around transition-related surgeries to recognize trans women as women, and can be found outing trans women on the Internet (including previous names, arrest records, employer info, and home addresses) and generally making lives miserable. Here’s the thing about TERFs: they’re not feminists. Now, you could make the argument that a feminist is anyone who says they are one, but I don’t think that really jives with the definition. At the very least, TERFs are extremely hypocritical feminists opposed to the actual tenets of feminism, a movement that is about oppression to patriarchy (which includes, you guessed it, rigid gender norms and a hierarchical binary gender system!) In this post, I’d like to focus specifically on why feminism must include trans women. I also believe that it must include trans people generally, but if you subscribe to the narrow definition of feminism being about male/female equality or equity, then trans women would be the focus here. It’s also important that feminism focuses on issues such as violence against women and lack of access to employment–areas where trans women are some of the most targeted and affected. Trans women, even more than cis women, are poorly served by a system that is built on gender-based oppression. Trans women are often seen as “fake,” as either not female enough or as “too feminine.” The societal expectations around fairly rigid gender roles mean that anyone perceived as a trans woman is likely to experience violence at incredibly high rates, have difficulty accessing employment or housing, and deal with daily microaggressions that can mean serious health problems and even suicide down the line. The numbers are striking, but for some reason TERFs aren’t convinced. It’s no surprise, either, that the same women trying to push trans women out of their communities often derail conversations around race, when women of color and especially trans women of color experience discrimination and violence at a much higher rate than white women. TERFs are quite often white cis women who focus on the axes of oppression that affect them personally while talking out the other side of their mouths oppressing trans women. This has to stop. Feminists must recognize the hateful, poisonous nature of TERF attacks and come together around the importance of rallying for those most vulnerable in our communities. The needs and rights of trans women are central to any feminism that practices what is preaches, just as are the needs of women of color, poor women, women with disabilities, and others in heavily marginalized groups. The fact is that misogyny, sexism, and patriarchy do not hit all women equally. While some TERFs certainly may be in groups that are targeted (such as lesbians), their blinders around the lived experiences of trans women make them toxic to feminist communities and set the entire movement back. feminism trans #TERFWeek radical feminism TERFs trans women #TERFWeek: Why Must Feminism Always Include Trans Women? 