 This piece originally appeared on HuffPost. My son C.J. lay in my arms all night. He cried until a restless sleep found him, then he whimpered rhythmically. If I moved away, he moved toward me so that our cheeks were touching. He hadn’t slept in bed with me since he was six months old. He turned 11 on February 1. A week later, Allie, his “school best friend” broke his heart. “My family doesn’t hang out with gay people, so I’m not going to hang out with you anymore,” she told him as they walked together after school. C.J. didn’t say anything. He was in shock and confused. The feeling of his heart breaking for the first time rendered him speechless. We’ve known Allie’s family casually for nine years, in the way you know a family when you raise children together in the suburbs. C.J. has gone to school with Allie for half his life. She’s always known that he’s a gender creative boy who like “girl things.” It turns out, while Allie and her family had apparently been (at least somewhat) okay with C.J.’s gender creativity, they aren’t okay if he’s gay. “How was school?” I asked C.J. when he got in the car that afternoon. “Fine,” he said. I could tell that nothing in his world was fine. We drove for a few minutes in silence until his pain came pouring out. It was too much for me to catch. “She just said it. She said her family doesn’t hang out with gay people, so she can’t hang out with me. She says I’m the only gay person she knows, and she doesn’t want to know me. She says that all of our friends will be her friends now because she is more popular than I am,” he sobbed, with his head in hands. Tears dripped out from between his little fingers that were dirty from playing handball on the blacktop. At this point in his life, C.J. doesn’t talk much about his sexual orientation. He’s not yet a romantic or sexual being; he’s an 11-year old boy with lots of time to figure out who he is attracted to while having our unconditional love and support. When he does talk about it, sometimes he says he’s gay. Sometimes he says he’s half gay and half bisexual. Sometimes he says, “I’m just me!” Whatever his future sexuality, that day homophobia turned my son into devastation personified. Like all LGBTQ and gender expansive people, C.J. has learned to live life ignoring the stares, snickers and snide comments of strangers. He can brush off invasive questions and critiquing quips from classmates with a certain amount of ease. But, facing hostility from one of the most important people in his life – one of his best friends – was something he’d never had to deal with. It put a gash in his heart that may never heal completely. I focused on driving even though it was the last thing I wanted to do. I wanted to pull over and crawl into the back seat to comfort him. When we arrived home, Matt, my husband, was working in the garage and could tell right away that something was wrong. C.J. was all tears and unanswerable questions. “Are Allie’s parents homophobic?” “Do they hate gay people?” “Do they hate me?” “If people are friends with me, can they still be popular?” “Who will I sit with at lunch?” “Who will I play with at recess?” “Why do people hate people for something they can’t change?” My gut reaction was the desire to lash out. I wanted to send Allie’s mom questioning texts. I wanted to point out Allie’s flaws to C.J. and return the birthday present she handed him with a smile a few days earlier. I wanted to erase all the play dates they’d had and the crafts they’d made. I wanted to delete the pictures they took with Santa at Christmas time. I knew I wasn’t thinking rationally with my brain; I was feeling with my heart. I reminded myself of the lesson we teach both of our sons: we can’t let hate breed hate. That’s easier said than done. C.J. doesn’t feel shame about liking makeup or thinking boys are cute. Allie had seen more of that this school year. A few months ago, she was the first person outside of our family who C.J. told he might be gay. She was a little uncomfortable, but their friendship carried on. After the movie Wonder came out, they discovered they both had a crush on the male costar. Allie thought it was weird, but also totally understandable because the boy was so cute. I guess there had only been little hints of gay up until just before the big breakup. Then, Allie got in trouble when her parents caught her reading my blog about raising a gender creative child on her iPad. Days later, she attended C.J.’s birthday party and there were gay people among the partygoers. During the party, C.J. randomly told her that he couldn’t wait for OC Pride (our local Pride) and that she should go because Pride is so much fun. Either Allie decided she was too uncomfortable with C.J.’s non-heteronormative identity to be friends with him or her parents made the decision for her, because the next day their friendship was over — but C.J.’s physical and emotional pain had just begun. He climbed onto my lap like a small child. I held him and rocked him while thinking, “This is what hate does. This is what the effects of bigotry look like. A mother rocking her fifth grader because neither one knows what to do to ease the pain.” We sat, sharing tears for nearly an hour with few words said. “I love you so much” I whispered over and over. “I know,” he whispered each time. “If I could take away the pain, I would.” I said. “I know. But you can’t take away the gay,” he said. I wished Allie and her parents could witness that moment. Would it prompt them to reconsider their phobias? Would they change their minds? Would they see that my tender-souled boy is a great person to have in their lives? Would they see that I’m teaching my child to love while they’re teaching their child to hate? C.J.’s pain came in waves, like pain usually does. He’d forget for a moment. He’d tire for a minute. Then he’d remember. The emotions would crest and break. At times, C.J. was inconsolable. I watched him shivering on the couch and struggling to catch his breath between sobs. This is one of the reasons why some LGBTQ and gender expansive kids kill themselves. This is why some of them sink into depression, turn to drugs, drop out of school and participate in unsafe sexual situations. This is why some mothers with children like mine find their arms empty one day. I worry that C.J. can’t take this kind of pain and rejection for years on end. He can’t have nights like this multiplied by seven more years of school and an infinite number of classmates who will hate him for who he loves and what he wears. We got him into the bath, telling him that a good soak would soothe him. Matt lay on the floor next to the bathtub so that C.J. would feel his presence and protection. Matt wiped away his own slow, silent tears when C.J. wasn’t looking. “You’re not going to be alone, buddy. You’re still going to have friends,” Matt said before listing all of C.J. friends – excluding Allie. Matt and I didn’t think Allie could persuade all of C.J.’s friends to turn their back on him. Until now, all of his girl friends have always been fiercely loyal and protective. But, she’d planted a seed of fear in our hearts we had never felt before. If Allie, who had once been one of C.J.’s most loyal friends and protectors, could change her view of him seemingly overnight, I worried it might be possible that others could do the same. I suddenly found myself spiraling as I imagined Allie and her parents texting, emailing, facebooking, tweeting, snapchatting and facetiming every family in the school directory to turn them against our son because he might love a boy one day. Gossip and hate spread fast in the suburbs. I caught myself before the terrifying daydream could unravel any further. Rather than dwelling on worst-case scenarios, Matt and I decided to try to use the experience as a teachable moment. We reminded C.J. to treat others the way he wants to be treated and that the easiest way to rob haters of their power is to act like their actions don’t bother you. C.J. asked if we could just go to bed and wake up tomorrow. I agreed without hesitation. Sleep is often the answer. His mention of the next day was a reminder that it would be the first day when he’d have no friends at school, sit by himself at lunch and play by himself at recess. He pictured every day of the rest of his days being spent alone and hated, because Allie’s family doesn’t hang out with gay people, so Allie doesn’t, so no one else will. “It won’t hurt this bad forever. It’s going to get better. I know that’s hard to believe right now, but I promise,” I said to C.J. in bed. “You have lots of friends. You are amazing and if people don’t see that, they are the ones with the problem, not you. Kids should be lining up to have a unique friend like you.” The next morning I drove C.J. to school slowly, in no hurry for him to leave the safety of my car. “I love you. Have a good day,” I said to him, as I do every morning. I watched him walk away from my car with his head hung low. It felt like my heart was walking off with him. I drove teary-eyed to work, thinking of the parents of rainbows who felt this pain before me and those who will feel it after me. I thought of the LGBTQ and gender expansive youth who have or will experience C.J.’s pain and rejection without unconditional love and support at home. When I arrived at work, I looked in the rear-view mirror and wiped my eyes. I took a deep breath and walked into my office, ready to start the countdown to when I found out how C.J.’s day at school went. Who would be friends with C.J.?    All Posts Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Huffington Post HuffPost LGBTQ Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child My 11 Year Old Was Just Dumped By His Best Friend Because He’s Gay  Following is a short recap of each of CJ’s Halloweens (it’s also our month in review for October from Instagram). I plan to add to this post each Halloween because I’ve heard from people that it’s helpful to read as they get their own gender expansive trick-or-treaters prepped for the holiday. 2007 Little Halloween CJ. Nearly nine months old. At the time, we had no idea that his gender expression would be feminine. Luckily, a monkey with a banana on its head is pretty gender neutral. So when he looks back at pictures, CJ doesn’t mind this one like he does others. It irks him (sometimes a lot and sometimes a little) when he sees a picture of himself as a baby or toddler looking masculine. Because that’s not who he is, but we didn’t know that until he was old enough to let us know through actions and, then, words. 2008 Little Halloween CJ and Chase. CJ was 21 months old and still not showing or telling us that he was gender nonconforming. I dressed him up as Robin Hood because: 1. My friend’s son had used the costume the year before and hand me downs are free. 2. Red heads look great in green, especially when they have little curls that poke out the bottom of their hat. 3. He could wear his cute moccasins with the costume (which I failed to take a picture of). 4. I had no idea he’d rather dress up as Maid Marian. We still had more than a year to start figuring that out. 2009 Little Halloween CJ visiting Matt at work. He was two years old and I dressed him as a police officer so he could be twinsies with his daddy. He loved it. CJ was just starting to show signs of being gender nonconforming but we weren’t picking up on them. Pics from that day are the first we have of CJ holding dolls. They were little Halloween dolls and he had them in his hands all the way until Christmas. 2010 Little Halloween CJ is three here. Between the last Halloween and this one, CJ was showing us that he was gender nonconforming. We just were struggling with it and hoping it was just a phase. He wanted to be Snow White for Halloween. I stuttered and stammered for an excuse not to let my son dress up as a girl and leave the house for the entire neighborhood to see. To us, that felt like taking the whole “liking girl stuff” thing too far, like we’d be parading our son around and asking for problems. That was a line we weren’t ready to cross. I spent weeks working on a costume for CJ that was a compromise. I got to the bottom of what he wanted most out of a costume, which was to wear makeup and fabric that felt nice. I sat him on my lap in front of the computer and went to a popular website for Halloween costumes. I clicked on the “Boys’ Costumes” section of the site and tricked him into thinking that those costumes were his only options. I felt guilty about it. But it also felt like something that I had to do to protect both of my boys from what other people might think and say and to keep the holiday as drama-free as possible. We ended up settling on a black satiny polyester-blend skeleton costume with a face full of black and white makeup. It wasn’t the costume he wanted; luckily eating candy helps sad feelings. 2011 Little Halloween CJ is four here. And FINALLY in a costume of his choosing. As Halloween approached that year, I grew scared, knowing he was going to want to dress up in a “girls’ costume.” He’d been talking about it for months. Striking a compromise like we had the year before with the polyester skeleton and face paint wasn’t going to happen. I took CJ to the costume store to select his Halloween attire. Matt and I agreed that whatever he chose to be, he had to have a wig. That felt safer to us. We both felt like we could really hide (I mean “protect”) our child under a wig. A wig felt like armor. We wandered eight aisles of options: boys’, girls’ and gender neutral. CJ was not interested in any of the “boy” costumes, except for the moment he spent inspecting the size-extra-small Jesus getup, because, after all, it did have a dress and long hair. He informed me loudly that Jesus’s sandals were ugly, and I told him that it’s not nice to judge Jesus or his footwear and that the options were limited in those days. Then he saw it and our decision-making process was over; there was no going back. It was a costume that he had mentioned a few times. It was Frankie Stein from the Monster High line of toys by Mattel. She is 15 and the daughter of Frankenstein. She’s supersassy and likes—according to her online bio—shopping for “scary cute clothes that are absolutely to die for.” 2012 Little Halloween CJ at age five. He dressed up as Bloom, a fairy from Winx Club. We’d come such a long way in our gender journey that we didn’t give it a second thought; we just bought the costume. No manipulative online browsing. No off-hour trip to the costume store. No panic. No worry. No nothing. Just when we got to the point of not caring about what other people might say, think or do about our boy wearing a “girls costume,” CJ began to care. When kids at school asked what he was going to be for Halloween he replied “I don’t know yet.” It sadden me to think that the next year he might want a “boys costume” to avoid negativity, stares and judgment from other people. At that point, I didn’t want my boy to want a “boys costume.” 2013 Little six-year-old Halloween CJ decided to be Tim Burton’s Alice In Wonderland. CJ was just beginning to find comfort and a sense of camaraderie in the dark, quirky fantasy worlds created by Tim Burton — worlds where being different is celebrated. CJ is different. He wants to be celebrated. As part of the costume, CJ wore a long blonde wig and makeup. When I looked at the pictures of him in his costume, it caught me off guard to see what a beautiful girl my son was. He looked effortless, happy and confident. All the things I want him to be. 2014 Little Halloween CJ at age seven. When the kids at school asked what he was going to be for Halloween, he told them he was going to be a lawyer. I smiled. My son was spinning the truth. I’m in PR, I know good spin when I see it. Yes, in very general terms CJ was going trick-or-treating as a lawyer. More specifically, he would be dressed as Reese Witherspoon’s lawyer character Elle Woods from the movie Legally Blonde. I’m sure everyone pictured him in a little suit and tie with a briefcase and, maybe, faux spectacles – not a pink velvet peplum skirt, white fishnet gloves, lap dog and crown. But, just as there are lots of versions of being a boy, there are lots of versions of being a lawyer. 2015 Little Halloween CJ was eight years old and maturing. The months leading up to Halloween, he’d been drawn to mid-century design, vintage pinup fashion and 1950’s culture. So, when he saw a 1950’s car hop girl costume, his annual outfit hunt quickly ended. Of course, because CJ uses his creativity and love for all things creepy and quirky whenever he can, his waitress had a backstory. She was murdered with a pair of pink fuzzy dice while delivering an order. Cue the posthumous makeup. Life with a child like ours — who society deems odd, weird and different — is magical and fun. When you aren’t blinded by worry and the fear of shame, your unique kiddo can amaze you with their creativity, courage and commitment to being totally authentic. 2016 Not-so-little Halloween CJ was nine last year. Shortly after I wrote that he would be dressing up as Bob The Drag Queen (the season eight winner of RuPaul’s Drag Race) for Halloween, Bob contacted me. I just about died. I couldn’t wait to tell CJ that his hero wanted to talk to me. But, Bob told me not to tell CJ because – wait for it – he wanted to try to surprise CJ by showing up to trick-or-treat with him on Halloween night. The only thing Bob asked was that he get to see the look of surprise on CJ’s face. I’m a realist. What were the chances that Bob would actually fly into town for Halloween? Especially after a huge appearance and video launch that raged until 3 am the morning of. In New York. No way it would work out, but the offer was beyond sweet. I decided that when meeting CJ in person fell through, I’d get up the nerve to ask Bob to send CJ a video wishing him a happy Halloween. What’s the worst that could happen? I never had to find out, because the worst didn’t happened. The best happened. Bob worked until the early morning on Halloween, hopped on a flight from NYC to LAX and knocked on the door to surprise CJ and go trick-or-treating with him. It was the best night of CJ’s short life and, for sure, the best Halloween he will ever have. 2017 Halloween CJ is 10 this year and decided to dress up as a dead drag queen. Over the course of his life, Halloween has gone from a fun holiday for dressing up to a time filled with anxiety and confusion as we struggled with his gender identity and expression to one of our favorite holidays because it’s a good reason for CJ to unleash his creative side. For example, here’s how his drag queen died. “Well. (click of the tongue and eye roll) Gurl. (flick of the wrist) She was headlining at a BIG drag show and one of the other drag queens didn’t show up for her shift. (disgusted eye roll) So she had to work overtime and do extra numbers. When she got done with her show it was so late that she was too tired to drive her car home. And she didn’t want to take a taxi or uber. So she decided to walk home. She was crossing the street when — BAM! — she got run over by a car!”    All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Halloween LGBTQ parenting raising a gay child Our Halloween Costume Evolution  “What are you going to be for Halloween?” one of my son’s male classmates asked him today. I waited nervously to see what C.J. would say. “A lawyer,” he replied. I smiled. My son was spinning the truth. I’m in PR, I know good spin when I see it. Yes, in very general terms my son will be trick-or-treating as a lawyer for Halloween. More specifically, he will be dressed as Reese Witherspoon’s lawyer character Elle Woods from the movie Legally Blonde. There are three very important reasons why C.J. selected this costume: 3. He likes the movie. 2. He likes to wear long blonde wigs. 1. The costume came with a pink purse with a tiny plush Chihuahua inside. (This is the main reason.) C.J. took several liberties with the Elle Woods costume we bought at the costume store. (BTW, the costume was 75 percent off because not many size-seven, second graders want to dress up as a character from a movie made six years before they were born.) C.J. added two necklaces, leggings, gloves, a tiara and, on occasion, a feather boa. We need to pick up a new pair of comfy ballet flats tomorrow. Nothing like waiting until the last minute, I know. For the past four years, C.J. has worn a “girl’s costume” for Halloween. And, every year he has stressed out about telling certain people his costume choice. My son doesn’t want to be teased for the things he likes, clothes he wears, hobbies he enjoys, books he reads and costumes he chooses. He wants to like what he likes without people hating his decisions. “C.J., what are you going to be for Halloween?” his teacher asked him last year in front of the entire class at the end of the day on Halloween. I was volunteering in class and cringed in my seat in the back of the room. “I haven’t decided yet…” he said part shy, part embarrassed, part annoyed. “What?! You better decide! It’s Halloween!” she said. This is his “serious attitude” face, he says. (He gives me this look several times a day.) The other kids looked at him in disbelief. What kid doesn’t know what they’re going to dress up as just hours before ringing that first doorbell and scoring that first candy? C.J. had decided….in July. He just didn’t want tell his peers and deal with their reactions. We’ve taught him that when it comes to his gender identity and expression, he doesn’t owe people an explanation if he doesn’t feel like giving one. He’s empowered to protect himself when he feels like he needs or wants to. Evasion was his coping mechanism last year. This year he coped by giving one version of the truth, speaking in generalities and leaving out the details. He looked at me after telling his classmate he’s going to be a lawyer and smiled. I smiled back at our little secret. I’m sure everyone who thinks C.J. is going as a lawyer pictures him in a little suit and tie with a briefcase and, maybe, faux spectacles – not a pink velvet peplum skirt, white fishnet gloves, lap dog and crown. But, just as there are lots of versions of being a boy, there are lots of versions of being a lawyer. All of those who like C.J.’s version of being a lawyer best say “Aye.” Aye!    All Posts Elle Woods gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Halloween Legally Blonde LGBTQ parenting Reese Witherspoon My Son as Reese Witherspoon as Elle Woods  Quick! Guess which one is C.J.’s! I hope you guys are ready for some serious spookiness, because in C.J’s class they were given a Mad Libs style story about a monster. They had to dream up the scariest monster they could imagine and fill in the nouns, verbs, adjectives and adverbs to create a truly terrifying tale. Then, they were given a drawing of Frankenstein’s monster and they had to color it to represent their monster, as well as a step-sheet to drawing it again to add to the easy and cool things to draw collection for them. I saw some of the monsters created by C.J.’s classmates. They were Horrible Monsters, Terrible Monsters, Scary Monsters, Angry Monsters and Mean Monsters. And, then there was C.J.’s…The Disco Monster. The Disco Monster By: C.J., Grade 2 The Disco Monster The Disco Monster crept out of the swamp on its roller skates. Its skin was very bright! Its eyes were very blue and its teeth were very small. It had a humongous black afro and it was covered in gum! The Disco Monster pulled itself along the ground slowly toward the happy children playing in the park. It had not eaten in days and its stomach was very crazy. The children were from C.J.’s second grade class. The creature is very fond of fresh second graders. He likes them for breakfast, because they are never terrible. The boys are hungry and a little scared. The girls are always scared and screaming. The creature’s eyes detected some third graders. He will have a few crazy third graders for dessert. The creature was outsmarted by C.J.’s second grade class. They are so smart. They tricked him into going back into the Disco Gum Swamp by running around it. He chased them and fell in the sticky gum swamp. C.J.’s second grade class cheered and clapped with excitement, for they know that if you use your smart brain, then you can always win. “The Disco Monster has a humongous black afro and lipstick and gum on his face.” — C.J. “The Disco Monster’s blazer is rainbow and patchwork with glitter and covered in gum.” — C.J. “The best part about The Disco Monster is his roller skates. His afro is the number two best part.” — C.J.    All Posts 2nd Grade gender creative gender nonconforming Halloween LGBTQ Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Second Grade The Disco Monster The Scariest Monster My Son Can Think Of  Since his first trip there in May of 2011, Palm Springs has been C.J.’s favorite destination. He refers to it fondly as the “the place with the rainbow flags.” We kept C.J. away from his town for much too long. So, a few weeks ago, we surprised C.J. and Chase by picking them up early from school and heading to Palm Springs. C.J. squealed with delight the entire way there. “Did you pack some of my dresses?” he asked as we drove. “Yes.” “My lip gloss?” “Yes.” “My nightgown?” “Yes.” “My leave in conditioner?” “Yes.” And so it went, on and on during the two-hour drive. We stayed at a truly fabulous house owned by one of my readers. The house is called, fittingly for C.J., Palm Springs Glam — or PS Glam for short.  C.J. has decided that when he grows up he is going to move to Palm Springs and live in the PS Glam House. He is not concerned what the home’s owners think of his plans. Until he’s ready to leave our un-glam home, he’d like to have a PS Glam inspired bedroom. He refers to PS Glam as if it is it’s own interior design style. Waiting for us in the fridge were a dozen rainbow cupcakes from Over The Rainbow Desserts. I scored major points when I let the boys (and Matt) eat them not only for dessert, but for breakfast too.  These pictures hung in the room C.J. claimed for his own and now he wants them to hang in his bedroom at home as well. I cannot say yes to his request at this time. “That girl is a hot mess!” he said when he first saw the pictures. “That’s two different girls, not one,” I informed him. “Wow, that’s two hot mess girls. Are they friends?” “I don’t think so.” “I like them. I think they’re funny. I want those pictures in my room.”   Within 30 minutes of our arrival, we pleasantly realized that Palm Springs still does something to C.J. He feels free there. Like he can breathe uninhibited there. And, run around the grass in his grandmother’s nightgown there.  He was so in his element and inspired, that he insisted on a photo shoot.      After a long day of modeling, he put on his favorite shirt, a purple tee with cap sleeves that says “I woke up like this,” and paired it with his tight white shorts. He played in the misters in front of the restaurant, twirling, dancing and entertaining those who dined alfresco. When the misters started to turn his shorts translucent, I said it was time to go.  We walked the strip and C.J. commented on many sights. For a brief moment, he wanted to be this for Halloween because it reminded him of Katy Perry. I love Katy Perry, but I would not love this outfit on my seven-year-old. So, I’m glad he changed his mind.  He also wanted this mask, but was very disappointed by whoever merchandised the window because he did not approve of the mask paired with a plaid, flannel shirt. He talked about that for a while.  The next day, before we left, C.J. worked on some of his fashion designs.  And enjoyed pool time with his Dad while Chase and I watched a movie.   When we were packing up to leave the PS Glam House, C.J. saw a postcard with pictures of other properties owned by my reader. He studied those pictures like he was picking Christmas presents out of the Target catalog. “I want to have my next birthday party at that house,” he said referring to the PS Mid-Century House. “And, then I want to keep it as my present.” I think C.J. is bound to make a home in Palm Springs…whether that home’s owners like it or not.         All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Katy Perry LGBTQ Orange County Palm Springs parenting PS Glam Raising My Rainbow C.J. Returns To Palm Springs…Finally  Okay, I try not to ask for much. But, here I am asking for something. I am on the board of the Orange County Equality Coalition’s School Compliance Task Force. Which is a long away of saying that I’m part of a group of people who are dedicated to making sure that schools in our county are treating LGBTQIA youth equally and abiding by the laws the state set forth to protect them. This coming Thursday is our annual fundraiser. It’s a fancy gala. I will wear a cocktail dress and heels and stay out past 10 p.m. – that’s how important it is. You’re invited, you can buy tickets here. It’s only $35 dollars for some wine, small bites, entertainment and good company. More than that, we are having a silent auction. Can you please check out the items up for bid and considering bidding? You’ll notice you can bid on a copy of my book and a lunch/coffee date with me. I’d love to meet you! Please bid! Monies raised will fund the monitoring and support of Orange County schools in their efforts to comply with state and federal anti-discrimination laws, safe school laws and the FAIR Education Act. * * * Some of my best friends are writing powerful things. Read them! Why my family marches in the Pride parade every year, SheKnows.com, by the amazing Cory Byrom, dad to a gender nonconforming son who is more fabulous than I’ll ever be. My Little Brony: A Tale of Heartbreak, TheClutteredHouse.com, by the equally-amazing Cluttered Mama, mom to a little boy who just wants My Little Pony underwear. * * * Here are other things that interested me this week: Making it Easier for your Child to Come Out: 10 Tips for Parents and Caregivers, OutProudFamilies.com Time Names Transgender Teen One of 25 Most Influential, Time.com    All Posts bullying Cluttered Mama Cory Byrom Gender gender creative gender nonconforming I Am Jazz Jazz LGBTQ OCEC Orange County Out Proud Families parenting The Cluttered House transgender Friday Fodder: Bid On Me Edition  C.J.’s favorite thing to do right now it put on elaborate fashion shows. Each one takes days of concentration and preparation. Some days he can hardly focus and sit still long enough to complete his second grade homework, but he can spend hours on his latest show. If fashion shows were a school project he’d get an A++. But, alas, he is graded on things like reading, not runways. Here’s his to-do list for each show:  Decide on a theme, trend and inspiration Create the stage and runway (he most often uses his Build-A-Bear’s bed as the runway) Choose music (Kesha remains his favorite) Make sure he has enough fishing line to suspend the models Pull looks Select models Write an intro to the show Appoint an emcee (it’s always me because he says he’s too busy worrying about the details to do this) Hire a cameraman (Chase always does this even though he’d rather be playing The Sims) Have a dress rehearsal Find an audience (that’s always Matt) Put on the fashion show (at last)  C.J. wanted me to share one of his fashion shows with you. (You will quickly see that I am an amateur at iMovie and he deserves better than me. But, I’m what he’s stuck with.) Also, he wants you to know that at 2:12 in the video “the grand finale starts and the models start dancing on the runway and being crazy girls and they are wearing fancy dresses because they are going to a wild party when the fashion show is over.”     All Posts Barbie Build-A-Bear Fashion Show Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Ke$ha Kesha LGBTQ Orange County parenting The Sims C.J.’s Glitter Glitter Fashion Show  Back to school is a notoriously tough season for us. It’s not because we have to wake up and get going earlier than we did all summer (which, yes, sucks). And, it’s not because our days (once again) become dominated by schedules, homework and packing lunches. Back to school marks the annual peak in C.J.’s anxiety levels (which, in turn, makes me more anxious than usual, though I try not to show it, especially to C.J.). For C.J., it marks the start of weeks and months of self-editing and agonizing over every little decision. Will he wear girl clothes to school? Will he use the bathroom or hold it all day? Will he be brave enough to carry the “girls” backpack and lunchbox he cherishes? Will he let his classmates see his true, colorful, quirky, fabulous, sparkly, sassy self? Or, will he play it safe? The start of first grade was the worst. He took baby steps (and sometimes no steps) toward being his authentic self and finally started sharing his gender nonconforming ways with his classmates and classroom a full three months into the nine-month school year. He didn’t feel truly accepted and comfortable until five months after that first bell rang. It’s little things, like picking a Monster High lunchbox, but refusing to carry it – opting, instead, for a plain brown paper bag – until November and not wearing a headband to school until March. The days leading up to finally carrying the Monster High lunchbox and rocking the headband were filled with questions and false starts. “Should I take my Monster High lunchbox tomorrow?…I’m going to do it…I’m going to take it….Do you think the kids will make fun of me?…Do you think anybody will bully me?…Maybe I’ll just wait until tomorrow…” My heart breaks with each step in the deliberation process, as I let him make his own decisions while reminding him that his father and I are supportive of whatever he decides because we love him no matter what. This August and into September, C.J. was getting excited, not anxious. I worried that his usual slow, two-week climb up Anxiety Mountain would, this year, be a race to the top in two days. I was bracing myself. But, it never came. Then, the night before school was to start, as we were packing backpacks, C.J. turned to me. “Mom, I can’t decide.” “Decide what?” “When I start second grade tomorrow, should I start as a boy or a girl?” I panicked, and not because my son might be my daughter, but because a social transition like he was suggesting takes at least more than the 12 hours he was giving me – eight of which we were supposed to be asleep. “I think that’s up to you. That’s a question that only you can answer,” I said calmly while feeling anything but. “But, what do you think? Just tell me!” he insisted. “I think you should go as you. I like you.” “So, I should go as a boy because I’m a boy? A boy who likes girl stuff?” “If that’s who you are.” “That’s who I am.” “Cool.” After I got C.J. and his brother to bed, I watched reality television and ate four more chocolate chip cookies than I should have, in an attempt to soothe my aching heart. I worried that the next day — the first day of school — would be drenched in anxiety. It wasn’t. C.J. carefully laid out his outfit. Yes, it was decidedly more masculine than first day outfits from years past and much more so than the clothes he wore during the freedom of summer, but the decision wasn’t painful for him. He wore blue and purple plaid shorts and a polo shirt with a necktie printed on it because he thought it was “fancy but not too hot.” He carried his pink backpack and pink rhinestone lunchbox without a second thought. We walked onto campus and were greeted by one “Hi C.J.!” after another. He smiled and waved and got a little shy. He got in line and scoped out his new classmates. After three years at the same school, he knows more than half of them. And, more importantly, they know him. By the third day of school, he had a wrist full of bracelets he’d beaded himself and orders from classmates who wanted a few of his one-of-a-kind creations on their wrist too. Tomorrow marks the end of the first full week of school and I would never jinx us by saying this has been the best back to school ever, so I’ll just say that C.J. is loving second grade so far and his teacher read Matilda to the class and C.J. loves Matilda.        All Posts Back to School bully bullying Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Monster High Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow School Second Grade Should I Start School As A Boy Or A Girl?  I Am Jazz:  The children’s book I Am Jazz will be released in a few days (Sept. 4). Preorder your copy today. I Am Jazz is the story of a transgender child based on the real-life experience of Jazz Jennings, who has become a spokesperson for transkids everywhere. I was lucky enough to get a sneak peek of the book and it’s so cute, the illustrations are happy and captivating and the book’s message is as beautiful as Jazz herself. Spread the word! CNN: Kids breaking gender norms: CNN is working on an assignment about kids breaking gender norms. And, they want to hear from you! Share your story with CNN iReport  (it’s easy, I promise). Here’s more info: Mo’ne Davis made headlines for being the first girl to throw a shutout in the Little League World Series, but she’s not the only youngster breaking gender norms. From boys who wear pink and dream of being fashion designers to girls who play on an all-boys football team, there are many ways children have proven that they aren’t defined by stereotypical gender rules. Parents, we’d like to hear how you’re embracing the ways your children express themselves. How are your children redefining gender roles? What have their experiences been like with their family and peers? Share a photo of your child busting gender stereotypes, whether it’s their Halloween costume or a daily wardrobe choice. Please keep submissions and comments respectful. Your stories could be part of a larger story for CNN Living. Head Start and Me:  On Monday I had the privilege of being the keynote speaker at a training session for preschool teachers and other staff of the Head Start Child Development Council in Stockton, California. I spoke to about 600 staff members during training sessions and, then, spoke at the San Joaquin Pride Center at an event sponsored by First 5 of San Joaquin and University of the Pacific’s Beyond Our Gates initiative. It was such a welcoming and accepting group of people, all of whom were eager to learn how to better work with differently gendered kids. Read a newspaper article about my appearance here.  PFLAG Southern Pacific Region Conference:  September 13 is the PFLAG Southern Pacific Region Conference in Long Beach. I’m honored to be presenting at the conference. I heart PFLAG so hard. I can’t wait to see my fellow PFLAGers and meet some new peeps. Who’s going?              All Posts Appearances CNN Friday Fodder Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Head Start I Am Jazz iReport Jazz Jennings LGBTQ Orange County parenting PFLAG Raising My Rainbow transgender Friday Fodder: I Am Jazz, CNN Edition  Tie-Dyed Underwear: Yes, you read that right. Now, I’ve tie-dyed a lot of things in my life, but never my underwear. This was all my friend Marie’s doing. She knows that C.J. often has mixed feelings about his underwear. He no longer wants to wear girls’ underwear, but also finds boys’ underwear to be very boring. So, Marie bought a package of white Hanes boys’ brief and let C.J. tie-dye them. They are now his favorite. Marie is my favorite.    These Shoes: He can’t get enough of these shoes. I’ve told him he can’t wear them to school when it starts. He didn’t like me saying that.  The end.    Dreamcatchers: C.J. has always been my good sleeper. When we brought him home from the hospital, he consistently slept five consecutive hours at night. His doctor wanted me to wake him after four hours to feed him so he wouldn’t starve to death. I didn’t and he’s still alive. He’s never been one to have bad dreams. On the contrary, he reports that his dreams have been known to feature cotton candy, cats and Kesha. One night we were watching the Twilight movie New Moon in which Jacob gives Bella a dreamcatcher and explains what it does. C.J. was hooked. He bought himself a pink dream catcher and put it on his headboard. He’s just like Bella Swan. On vacation this summer, among his souvenirs were a dreamcatcher bracelet and another (much, much larger) dreamcatcher for his bed. When asked if the dreamcatchers keep his bad dreams away he said, “Yeah, I think so. But I don’t know why they are called night-mirrors, my dreams never have mirrors in them.”    Wigs: Read my last blog post to see just how in to wigs C.J. is. Plus, over the summer, a drag queen taught C.J. how to put a wig on “the right way.” He puts his thumbs up, rests the base of his thumbs against his forehead, when I put the wig up to his forehead, he hooks it with his thumbs and keeps them there as I pull the wig down in the back. Then, and only then, does he release his thumbs. He’s perfected this technique and looks forward to using it for many years to come.    Puppets: At present moment, C.J. wants to be a puppeteer when he grows up. He got his favorite puppet as another vacation souvenir and rarely goes anyplace without her.  Her name has been Lucy, then Bucket, then Harry, then Lucy, then Caroline.  She is currently nameless.  She is a cheerleader, which makes C.J. kind of want to be a cheerleader, but he wants to be a puppeteer more.    SO SO Happy Back-To-School Backpack: C.J. loves everything that the SO SO Happy brand has to offer. (I mean, I do too, they make cool stuff, embrace individuality, build self-confidence, inspire positivity and acceptance among all beings). He can’t wait to rock this backpack on the first day of school.  He’d like you to know that “you can also wear it as a ‘frontpack’ to look like you are carrying the happy monster like a baby and that always makes people smile.     All Posts Back to School dreamcatcher gender nonconforming high heels Kesha LGBTQ Orange County parenting puppets Raising My Rainbow SO SO Happy tie-dye underwear wigs What’s Trending Now (According To My 7-Year-Old Son)  C.J.’s birthday is six months away, so – naturally — he thinks it’s time to start planning his party. Last year we celebrated with lunch, shopping and pierced ears for his doll at the American Girl store in Los Angeles. How does he plan to top that? By having his eighth birthday party at a wig and hairpiece store. We were at the mall when he shouted, “I’m going to have my birthday party there!!!” When I whipped my head around, I saw him pointing to Pauls Products – which serves the nearby retirement community, with its population of 16,000 and median age of 78 years. “Take my picture in front of it and send it to Uncle Michael!” he said as he posed by the store with a hundred well-coiffed heads. When C.J. thinks something is so fabulous that I can’t possibly appreciate it, he has me take a picture of it and text it to my brother. I did as I was told.  “Now, let’s go tell them I want to have my birthday party there,” he said, swiftly turning on a heel. “Your birthday is six months away. We don’t need to go in there today. We have some time,” I said stalling. I hoped he would forget about Pauls Products and move on to the next great birthday party idea. What kid has their birthday party at a wig store? “But, I don’t want them to get all booked up,” he worried. “That’s not the kind of place that usually hosts birthday parties,” I said. “They will if you ask them. Let’s go see,” he said, ever hopeful. “I’m not going in there. It’s creepy,” Chase said. C.J. looked at me and I could tell he wasn’t going to take no for an answer. “If we do go in there for your birthday, we won’t be able to take a lot of people.” I was trying to manage expectations without killing hope. “That’s okay. I just want Uncle Michael. Cause I know he’ll like it.  Oh, and Grace. Cause she’ll like it too. And Grace’s Mom cause somebody has to drive Grace.” He was counting his guests and held up his fingers to show me that that was only four people. I guess I wasn’t invited. “I’m gonna try on so many wigs. And I’m going to buy one,” he continued. Shit. I guessed the wigs are really expensive because they looked very nice; not $15, like the chunky, rough ones he loves to get from the costume store before Halloween. “If I get the wig, I get to keep the head right?” he asked. “Oh god, I hope not!” Chase said instinctively. “No you don’t get to keep the head,” I said, like I knew what I was talking about. “Thank god,” Chase said.  I tried explaining that the wigs were meant to be for people losing their hair due to medical reasons or age and that they weren’t just for dressing up and playing around in. “But wigs are for everyone,” he argued. He was using my own words against me. I’m always saying everything is for everyone. Colors, skirts, dolls, wigs. C.J. reluctantly followed Chase and me away from Pauls Products and to the car. He kept talking about the wigs and his birthday party. “Maybe Uncle Michael knows of a wig shop in Hollywood where we can go instead,” I offered. Wondering where my brother’s actor, performer and drag queen friends get their wigs and hairpieces. “Do they host birthday parties at Uncle Michael’s Hollywood wig stores?” CJ asked. I told him I’d check into it when we got back from vacation. Two weeks later, as we walked through the front door after seven hours on airplanes and in airports, C.J. reminded me to start looking into wig stores for his birthday party.  As I looked up the number for Pauls Products, I wondered how many other mothers had to do this for their sons. I called Pauls Products, feeling guilty for taking up the wig store worker’s time when they could be helping someone who legitimately needed a wig. “Hi, would I need an appointment to try on wigs at your store?” I asked very sweetly. “No, but you have to pay five dollars for every wig you try on,” the Pauls Products employee answered. “Do you allow children to try on wigs?” “No.” I was quiet, thinking about the pediatric cancer patients who may be in need of a wig, but couldn’t get one at Pauls Products. I was silently feeling sad for them. “Okay. Kids can try on wigs, too,” they said. “But, it’s still five dollars per wig.” They didn’t seem thrilled about having kids in their shop. I couldn’t blame them.    All Posts Birthday effeminate Fabulous gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Halloween LGBTQ Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow wigs My Son: Wigging Out  PFLAG Moms come in all shapes, sizes, colors, personalities, temperaments and advocacy styles. One of my all-time favorite PFLAG Moms, Lisa, has a personality and advocacy style that are quiet, gentle, kind and steady. She’s an elementary school teacher near our home in Orange County where she runs a gender expansive classroom. Better than gender neutral environments, gender expansive environments affirm all children no matter then gender identity or gender expression and allow them to express their interests, find confidence in their strengths and expand their conventional understanding of gender. PFLAG Mom Lisa helped me create the “Tips for Educators” found in the back of my book and which I use when I speak to youth serving professionals.  Following is a letter she wrote to our local PFLAG chapter. The letter shows Lisa’s spirit, her way of educating and that every voice can be powerful no matter its volume. “How wonderful that no one need wait a single moment to improve the world.” — Anne Frank I love those quizzes on Facebook. You know the ones… you answer a series of random questions and it gives you your flower, the personality you most embody, your spirit animal, etc. For the record, I’m a sunflower, lawful good, and my spirit animal is a buffalo. They tell me what I already know about myself. I’m somewhat reserved, not a mover or a shaker, but passionate about justice, and a peacemaker. Sometimes, I wonder how to reconcile my rather sedate personality with the need to be an activist for the cause of LGBTQ equality. Last week in the teacher’s lounge I sat with my colleagues having our leisurely 25-minute lunch break. We were talking, as we often do, about our children and what they are doing. I mentioned that my son and his boyfriend had just gone to Catalina and had a great time. A couple of my colleagues visibly twitched at the phrase “my son and his boyfriend.” One of them said that she had trouble with the whole “gay thing” because she was a Christian. I mentioned that I was Christian too. She asked respectfully, “What kind of Christian are you?” I replied, “The good kind!,” we all laughed, and that was that. There was a quiet understanding that maybe Christianity has a broader definition. There have been other conversations, and there will be more. Each of us, living our lives and sharing our daily experiences with others, taking advantage of those “teachable moments,” is quietly making a difference. We’re helping others understand that we, and our loved ones, are not necessarily who they think we are. Don’t get me wrong. We do need equality activism. We need strong and aggressive attorneys to fight for the civil rights of our LGBTQ loved ones in the classroom, in the workplace, on the athletic fields, and elsewhere. We need Pride Parades and rallies. But, we also need the gentle activist. It’s all necessary and important. I know there will be many other conversations, but even that brief conversation gave my friend and other colleagues some food for thought. Living our lives without shame and having open conversations without filtering them is one way to open hearts and minds. I’ll be marching in the Pride Parades for years to come. I’ll be walking at the AIDS Walks. But, I’ll also continue to have lunch with my colleagues and chat about both of my kids, because it’s a good way to spend 25 minutes and begin to change the world. I may not be a rose and my spirit animal is not a lion, but I’ll embrace my inner sunflower and know that quietly proud can sometimes get the job done. PFLAG Mom Lisa    All Posts Gay Gay pride Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Lisa Orange County parenting PFLAG PFLAG Mom raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Every Voice Can Be Powerful No Matter Its Volume  I’m good at managing expectations and preparing my children for disappointment. That being the case, I have spent the last year telling C.J. that no Halloween ever in the history of Halloweens will compare to the one he had last year. He has experienced his best Halloween. The end. Period. Adieu. (photo creds: Bob The Drag Queen) Last year I told the internets and social meeds that he was going to be Bob The Drag Queen for Halloween and, voila, Bob The Drag Queen surprised C.J. by knocking on the door just before sunset on October 31 and trick-or-treating through the streets of West Hollywood while holding C.J.’s hand. That’s not real life. Whoever or whatever you dress up as for Halloween does not care enough about you to want to fly across the country and spend the holiday with you. If so, I would have spent some of my Halloweens with Tina Turner, Gumby and Rainbow Brite. We have been very open and honest with C.J. Then, the season nine finale of RuPaul’s Drag Race concluded and C.J. turned to me and said “this year I’m going to be Sasha Velour for Halloween and she’ll come trick-or-treating with me. Even though Bob will always be my favorite queen.” “No! Remember. You’ve had your best Halloween. That’s not going to happen. That’s not real life,” I said. “I remember,” he said sadly. Oh, he remembered all right. He just didn’t want to believe it. A few weeks ago he finally realized there was validity to what I had been saying all year. God bless the hopefulness of youth. He announced that he was going to be a dead drag queen for Halloween.  “How did she die?” I asked not expecting an answer. “Well. (click of the tongue and eye roll) Gurl. (flick of the wrist) She was headlining at a BIG drag show and one of the other drag queens didn’t show up for her shift. (disgusted eye roll) So she had to work overtime and do extra numbers. When she got done with her show it was so late that she was too tired to drive her car home. And she didn’t want to take a taxi or uber. So she decided to walk home. She was crossing the street when — BAM! — she got run over by a car!” “So what I hear you saying is you’ve thought of a backstory,” I said. “Duh.” After several attempts to find just the right dress he decided to wear one he got last Christmas. Then, he insisted that Matt run it over with our car. His costume and backstory require that we get him completely done up and gorgeous in drag. And then make it look like he was run over. It’s a multi-step, multi-layer process. Because why wouldn’t it be? I mean, as much as I try to manage expectations and set the bar at a realistic height, it is C.J. we are talking about. We did a dry run in preparation for Halloween. Here are some pics. Boo!       All Posts Bob the Drag Queen Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Halloween LGBTQ Orange County parenting RuPaul RuPaul's Drag Race Sasha Velour Another Drag Queen Halloween for My Son  I’ve been a wee bit massively busy lately, as you may have noticed. C.J. and Chase’s last day of school is today, my day job is busier than usual and I’ve been working on a side project that I can’t wait to tell you about some day. Don’t you hate it with people vaguely allude to exciting news and then reveal nothing? Here are some things I can reveal… Raising My Rainbow is being released today in ITALY!!!! I am not fluent in Italian, so I will not be able to read it. But, if you can, you should. Click here to order it. This weekend I’ll be in Las Vegas for the American Library Association’s Annual Conference, where I will be presented with the 2014 Stonewall Book Award-Israel Fishman Non-Fiction Award. I’m seriously so excited! What should I do while in Vegas? Suggestions welcome! Last but not least, PFLAG national reblogged my Father’s Day post to their A Note To My Kid website. A Note to My Kid is a project of PFLAG National that gives parents, families, friends and allies of the LGBTQ community the opportunity to share their unconditional love, via notes, photos and videos. It’s such a touching project. Check it out and write a note to your kid. More soon, I promise.  Maybe a photo or two from Vegas?    All Posts ALA American Library Association Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Italian Italy LGBTQ PFLAG Raising My Rainbow Stonewall Stonewall Award Raising My Rainbow….In Italy!!!!  When I met Matt, I wasn’t looking for a husband or father for my future children. I was 17. I was looking for a prom date. He asked me to prom. He asked me to marry him. He asked me to start a family. I always said yes. In between all of life’s milestones and years, we slowly made our life, wrote our story. We learned everything about each other. Then we learned some more. Just when we think there’s nothing left to learn, we prove ourselves wrong again. I’ve learned that Matt was born to be a husband and father. It’s what he’s best at. And, he’s good at a lot of things. His love for Chase, C.J. and me has always been loyal, forgiving, unconditional and fierce. I’ve never met anyone who can love like Matt can. When our youngest son started playing with dolls, wearing dresses and acting effeminate, I foolishly wondered if Matt’s love would be less for him that it was for us. Now, four years after our son picked up his first Barbie and refused to put her down, I’ve learned that C.J.’s gender nonconformity has made Matt an even better husband, father and person. Last year at Orange County Pride, we each picked up some of those iconic Human Rights Campaign stickers — the yellow equal sign in the blue square. I used mine as a bookmark. Without saying a word and while no one was looking, Matt put his proudly on his truck’s bumper. When I saw it, my heart melted, my eyes watered and I took a picture to save on my phone forever. “What did the guys at work say about your HRC sticker?” I asked him later. I imagined him driving his massive, lifted truck into the police department lot and possibly getting some stares or slurs. I worried that he took a stance when he didn’t really need to. “Nobody said anything and I don’t care if they do,” he said, matter-of-factly. We took Chase and C.J. to Disneyland on Easter Sunday. We only had 30 minutes to spare before our dinner reservations. We were trying to cut quickly across the park to ride the Matterhorn Bobsleds. We were stopped in our tracks by Mickey’s Soundsational Parade. We had to go right or go left. We had to hurry. Chase was impatient. Matt saw Ariel atop a float, headed down Main Street straight for us. He whisked C.J. up, onto his shoulders. “You take Chase and ride The Matterhorn. I’m staying right here with C.J. so he can see the princesses. We’ll meet you at dinner,” he said. “But…” I started to argue. “No. Go,” Matt said, looking at the approaching princesses, not me. Later he told me that C.J. screamed uncontrollably and clapped wildly as the princesses came into his view. He waved to the princesses and lost his words in the thrill of the moment. He was overcome with happiness, and so was Matt. “You should have seen him. He was out of his mind when he saw them. I don’t think I’ve ever seen him like that. And, I’m glad it was me who was with him. Just me and him,” Matt said over dinner when the kids weren’t paying attention. Initially, I felt a tinge of jealousy because I hadn’t been there to witness C.J.’s unbridled reaction. The jealously faded quickly. I’m glad they shared that moment, forever in their minds. A father and son and the Disney Princesses. The four of us like to watch Modern Family together. We sat down to watch Mitch and Cam’s wedding. As they were saying their “I Dos,” I remembered something irrelevant and unimportant that I wanted to tell Matt. As I turned my head to him, he turned his head to me and asked, “Why is this making me emotional?” We watched the rest of the episode in happy, sweet silence. Matt has learned that love is love. Between a father and his effeminate son. Between same sex partners.   Between people. The HRC sticker on his bumper, his steadfastness in the presence of princesses, his emotions when watching two men marry, these are the little moments when I look at my husband — my hyper-masculine, jock, cop, tough-guy of a man — and think I could not have picked a better partner for life or father for my children. Happy Father’s Day, Matt. I love you. xoxo, Lori            All Posts Barbie Disney Princess Disney Princesses Disneyland effeminate Father's Day Gay Gay pride Gender gender creative gender nonconforming HRC Human Rights Campaign LGBTQ Matt Modern Family parenting raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow This Is How A Father Should Love  On Tuesday, I gave you all the chance to win a copy of the Raising My Rainbow audiobook (released on May 27 by Audible). To enter, all you had to do was tell me something you’ve learned from my book/blog. I had a hard time picking just one winner, so I picked two. Here they are… Sam: This blog helped me become more proud of my choice to try and become a therapist with specialization in the field of gender studies. People may look at me funny when I explain that I want to work with gender creative people and people who are trying to figure out who they are, but that doesn’t matter. All that matters is that someone is out there willing to listen and offer a kind word when so many in our society are fine ignoring or chastising their fellow humans. Laura: Only one thing I learned from your book/blog?! Finding your blog was like coming home. I struggled for so long to make sure I was being the best parent I could be to my gender creative son and your blog and book validated so many things for me. His Pre-K teachers are reading it and my parents have my copy. My Dad told me the other day that if I wasn’t planning on meeting with my son’s Kindergarten teacher to talk to her before school started that he would! You give me confidence and helped me give my son his voice. If you didn’t win here, never fear! My two besties are hosting giveaways on their blogs. Check them out here and enter:  Raising My Rainbow Audiobook Giveaway!, Living A Bold Life So many important things… and a giveaway!, NerdyApple.com  My other bestie (not really), Queen Latifah is hosting a giveaway of the audiobook book as well. Read the story about Raising My Rainbow on her site, at the bottom you’ll read how to enter:  WHAT I LEARNED FROM RAISING MY RAINBOW, QueenLatifah.com  In the news this week: Last summer I had the pleasure of meeting an awesome family that has been blessed with a trans son. Watch this video about them. It’s really moving. AGENDER: PORTRAITS OF YOUNG PEOPLE WHO IDENTIFY AS NEITHER MALE OR FEMALE, FeatureShoot.com The Transgender Tipping Point, TIME      All Posts Audible Audiobook Besties Friday Fodder Gender Giveaway LGBTQ Living A Bold Life Nerdy Apple parenting Queen Latifah transgender Friday Fodder: Winners and More Giveaways!  The audiobook version of Raising My Rainbow was released by Audible today.  Yay! Want a free copy?  Cool, read on to learn how to enter to win. Now, I share with you the top five things I learned while narrating the audiobook: 1.  My stomach growls.  A lot.  Loudly.  Even when I’m not hungry.  And, that’s not conducive to the recording process.   Also, the more I think about my stomach growling, the more it growls.  There might be a monster living in there. 2.  Talking for six to eight hours a day over the course of multiple days will make your head hurt worse than your throat.  Go figure. 3.  I pronounce several words incorrectly and use those words quite often when I write.  So, I had to sit and say those words over and over again until my producer got a version that was suitable for use.  No, I will not tell you what those words are. 4.  I was fighting off a cold and the sweet baristas at the nearby Starbucks introduced me to a drink called The Medicine Ball.  I dedicate the audiobook to them (and Matt and the boys and my brother and you). 5.  The “corporate headquarters” of Gretchen Christine, the company founded by Real Housewife of Orange County Gretchen Rossi are next door to the studio where I recorded.  I never saw Gretchen or Slade, try as I might. To enter to win a copy of the Raising My Rainbow audiobook, leave a comment below telling me one thing you learned from my blog and/or book.  A winner will be announced this Friday. And, everybody, if you are on Audible, you should totally consider writing a review for the audiobook.  Also, you do not need to have an Audible.com membership in order to buy the audiobook.    All Posts Amazon Audible Audible.com Audiobook David Burtka Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Giveaway LGBTQ Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow Raising My Rainbow Audiobook Giveaway!!!!!  Guess what happens on Tuesday?  The audiobook version of Raising My Rainbow will be released by Audible! Guess who the narrator is?  Me! I’m grateful that Audible allowed me to narrate the book. It would have been weird to hear someone else owning the words I wrote about my family.  (I just had to get over hating the sound of my own voice.) Here’s an excerpt from the book before it is released:  Guess who narrated the audiobook’s foreword?  The one and only David Burtka!  I’m forever thankful for the support I’ve received from the Burtka Harris family.  (I like David’s voice much more than my own.) Listen to David read the book’s foreword here:     And, audible has named Raising My Rainbow an “Editors Select” book for May 2014.  Here, my editor explains why it was selected: Editors Select, May 2014 – I have been a fan of Lori Duron and her blog, Raising My Rainbow, for a few years now. When I learned that Audible Studios was producing her book based on her blog, I jumped at the chance to review it. Duron’s book (and blog) shares her and her husband’s funny, heartwarming, and at times heartbreaking experiences in raising a gender nonconforming son. C.J., their youngest son, is a boy who prefers stereotypical girl things – girl toys, girl activities, girl clothes. I’m not a parent, but the open and honest way that Duron writes about her family, and in particular C.J., is utterly engaging, and provides excellent advice and life lessons for any human being. Narrated by Duron herself, Raising My Rainbow is full of content that never appeared on her blog – more hilarious C.J. stories, more of her and her husband’s struggles with their parenting decisions, and even a disturbing account of bullying experienced by their older son. This brave memoir teaches that it’s important to fully love the people in your life…no matter what. —Katie, Audible Editor You can pre-order the audiobook now by clicking here .  (You don’t need to have an Audible.com subscription to purchase the book.)      All Posts Audible Audible.com Audiobook Burtka Harris David Burtka Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Neil Patrick Harris parenting Raising My Rainbow David Burtka + Lori Duron = Raising My Rainbow Audiobook  Things that recently caught and held my attention… You have got to watch the latest music video from indie musician and human rights activist Tom Goss.  Illuminate the Dark shows that beauty takes many forms and that each individual possesses the ability to be vibrant. With the video, Goss hopes to “help people see one another through the eyes of those that love them.  People judge others all of the time, but if we take the time to see people as their mother, lover or sister sees them, we will begin to see what makes each individual dynamic and beautiful.” Look for an appearance by yours truly, a fabulous redhead and an awesome big brother.   * * * This Sunday, I’ll be at the Unitarian Universalist Church of Studio City as part of a panel discussing gender. What does it mean to be transgender? Gender nonconforming? Gender creative? Genderqueer? What is the gender spectrum and how does it affect the way we live, the language we use, the laws we need, and even our social media interactions?” Join us to learn from a panel of experts, who became experts through their own personal experiences, including:  Lori Duron, author/blogger, RAISING MY RAINBOW Marsha Aizumi, author, TWO SPIRITS, ONE HEART Aiden Aizumi, educator/advocate  Bring your questions, your openness, and your willingness to learn! We will work to create a safe environment where there are no dumb questions! Click here to learn more about the event, which starts at noon, is free and open to all. * * * I’ve been named one of BlogHer’s 2014 Voices of the Year! BlogHer, a 100 million-strong blogging community, received thousands of submissions and selected my blog post “When The Boys’ Room Isn’t Safe For A Boy “ as a winner in the “Heart” category. As a result, WordPress Freshly Pressed the same blog post. Thanks BlogHer and WordPress! Click here to read more and learn who my fellow 2014 Voices Of The Year are.  * * * The amazing people behind Camp Aranu’tiq (a camp for transgender and gender variant youth ages eight and older and their families) have announced a new fun-filled weekend camp for LGBTQ parents/guardians and their children of any age. Extended family members are welcome, too! Click on a camp name to learn more about Camp Aranu’tiq and/or the LGBTQ Family Camp. * * * Headlines… Title IX protects transgender students, federal agency says  Parents of young boy in England pulling their child out of an after school club because the club won’t let him wear dresses The Lord Looks At The Heart: When My Son Became My Daughter * * * I hope all of you mothers and adults who mother a child had a very happy Mother’s Day.  C.J. made me a card at school that says he loves me most when I’m cleaning the house. So, there’s that.    All Posts BlogHer Camp Aranu'tiq Gender gender nonconforming Illuminate The Dark LGBTQ Orange County parenting PFLAG Tom Goss Voices of the Year VOTY Tuesday Fodder: Tom Goss, Illuminate the Dark Edition  “This app is taking forever to load,” my 10-year-old son Chase said as I was driving. It was just the two of us in the car and he was fiddling with his iPhone*. “What app is it?” I asked. He isn’t supposed to download anything unless he has our permission. “It’s called Grindr,” he said. I nearly crashed the car. “You can’t download that,” I said quickly, full of panic and resisting the urge to reach over and snatch the phone out of his hands. I was certain the app would load faster than any app has loaded in the history of all apps and his profile would be automatically complete and naked selfies of men would flood his phone and his brain. “I can download it; it’s just taking forever,” he said. “No. I mean you aren’t allowed to download it. I’m saying no. You’re not old enough and, besides, you didn’t ask for permission.” “Oh, I’m sorry,” he said. He hates even remotely feeling like he is somewhat near being in trouble. “It’s okay. Why do you want to download that app anyway?” My panic was fading a little. “I was looking through lists of the top iPhone apps and I saw that they had a list of the top LGBT apps and that’s so cool that they even have LGBT apps. I wanted to show my support and Grindr was the top LGBT app, so I wanted to download it to show my support for everybody who is LGBT and let Apple know that they should make more LGBT apps,” he explained. Chase is the best person I know. When he’s old enough, and if he goes that route, some person on a dating app would be lucky to meet him. “That’s very sweet. That app is for adult gay men who are looking for friends and boyfriends,” I explained. “That’s cool,” he said. I reminded him about the rules that came with his phone – including no downloading apps without approval from Matt or me. Later, when we had a moment to ourselves, I told Matt that our son was loading Grindr to his phone. “WHAT!?” Then, I called my brother to tell him. “WHAT?! Chase had the best intentions in mind…and he had a $30 iTunes gift card burning a hole in his pleather wallet. You see, Chase’s birthday is today, May 7. My first-born son, the one who made me a mother, is 11 now. Yesterday I took him on a lunch date. I watched him eat his hamburger. I just stared and stared and stared. He is beautiful to me. I could watch him forever. But he doesn’t want me to. I embarrass him. He’s a tween. He has a playoff football game this weekend. After much prodding, he asked for a leather jacket and a coffee mug for his birthday. He wants steak for dinner. I took him to buy new sneakers; he now wears a size bigger than mine. I’m helping him become self reliant, but dread the day he leaves the nest.   I love that he loves all people and wants to support the LGBT community. He just can’t show his support by downloading Grindr. How would you suggest an 11-year-old boy who identifies as straight show his support for the LGBT community? *To some, the fact that my 11-year-old has an iPhone will be the thing that sticks out to them most in this blog post. I explain myself only to avoid receiving a shit-ton of comments and emails voicing disapproval of this. Chase does not ask for anything. Ever. We have to beg him to write Christmas and birthday wish lists. This past Christmas, the only thing he asked for was an iPhone. We were eligible to get one free from our wireless provider, so we did. And, we gave it to Chase. He deserves it. He’s the awesomest. End of story. Thank you for your concern.    All Posts Birthday Chase Grindr iPhone LGBTQ Orange County parenting raising a gay child My 10 Year Old Downloaded Grindr  C.J. is very nosy and always wants to know what’s inside other people’s purses. Because it is not okay for him to peek inside the satchels of strangers, I’ve started easing his curiosity by showing him the pages inside popular magazines that list the contents of celebrities’ bags. He loves those lists so much that he wanted me to create one for him and share it with you. Without further ado, here is what’s inside my son’s purse.  Purse: I made my purse. Well, I didn’t “make it” make it. I colored in the design. I like this purse cause it holds a lot of stuff and I have a lot of stuff to hold. I can also wear it across my body so my hands are free to hold more stuff. Plastic Show Pony: I got this pony at Disney Princesses On Ice. It’s beautiful and pretty and special. I named it Uni for unicorn. Because it’s like a unicorn, without a horn, so it’s not a unicorn, but I pretend that it is. The Cat In The Hat Book: I keep it in my purse because I really wanted it and last time I found one it was in Spanish and I finally found it in English. And, I really love The Cat In The Hat.  I can’t read Spanish. Green Finger Pointer: I like green, it’s one of my favorite colors besides red, purple, pink and rainbow. I use it to point when I pretend that I’m playing school and I’m the teacher. It makes pointing easier. Sometimes I pretend to pick my nose with it and it’s green like boogers.  So, that’s perfect. Tiny Plush Giraffe: Doesn’t he look like a baby toy? Well, he’s way more than that; he’s also a finger puppet! Can you believe that?!  So, I like it because his tail is fringy and I like his hair. I named him Bobby. Fancy Lady Head Brooch: She’s diamond-y. Her favorite thing in the whole wide world is diamonds and if she got $1,008 dollars she would spend it all on diamonds and nothing else. Gingerbread Boy: I made him gender conforming. I like his hair. I gave him green highlights. I like how I made his pants roll up at the bottom. I gave him a HUGE smiley face because he’s always happy like the song “Happy” by Pharrell. I think Pharrell’s hat is crazy-cool. Pink Bag Of Coins: I want to keep them and save them up and buy something from miWorld. I also told Nana that I wanted something from miWorld so possibly she’ll get it for me and I can save my money. (Don’t tell anybody that this is fake money.) Anna from Disney’s Frozen: I like her because she talks when you push on her boobs and stomach. Frozen is my favorite movie right now. I like it because two girls save the day and they don’t need a boy. And, I like the dresses that Elsa and Anna wear. $5: I got a dollar. It’s actually five dollars. I earned this money doing chores for my Pa. I keep it in my purse in case I need more dollars and it’s special because it’s the only five-dollar bill I have. It’s my biggest money I ever got. If I did spend it, I would spend it on a time machine so If I didn’t want to go to school I could just skip ahead and skip it. Fancy Skeleton Head: It’s a girl, but she has a beard. My daddy gave it to me when he got back from Mexico. It reminds me of Spanish.  My mom’s skeleton head will look this fancy when she dies and her skin falls off. Harajuku Girl Figurine: Because I like Gwen Stefani and everything Harajuku. They are pretty and super sassy. Brown Chair: I keep it because it reminds me of a chair at our house. Fairly Odd Parents Doll: I got it at Chuck E. Cheese’s when I played one game and got 1,000 tickets. Last time I got 100 tickets on the exact same game. You should play that game when you go to Chuck E. Cheese’s. I like his hair. I think it’s cool that he has green hair and I like that he’s a fairy. iTouch: My mommy gave it to me. It’s my first own electronic thing. My favorite apps are Fruit Ninja, Kick the Dummy, McKenna the American Girl doing gymnastics and any app where you make dresses and do makeovers. Lip Gloss: Which I can put on right now (applies gloss). I keep it in my purse so that I can put it on when I need to. Like when I go to school. Sometimes I can wear my mom’s lipstick, but only if I ask. I got this lip gloss at Sephora. I love Sephora. You should go there. They have every makeup ever made. Fake Rat: I use it to scare people. If they try to rob my purse they would see the rat and scream and stop robbing me. Miniature Gumball Machine: It reminds me of love because the gumballs are heart-shaped and I love it and I love love. Rainbow Dash From My Little Pony: It reminds me of my mom’s book called Raising My Rainbow.    All Posts C.J.'s Purse Chuck E. Cheese's Disney Disney Princess Disney's Frozen effeminate Fairly Odd Parents Frozen gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Gwen Stefani Harajuku LGBTQ My Little Pony parenting Pharrell Raising My Rainbow Sephora The Cat In The Hat What’s In My Son’s Purse?  This Thursday at 7 p.m., I’ll be speaking at Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts, about parenting, teaching and promoting advocacy for differently gendered children.  The event is sponsored by The Center School and it’s FREE!  Monte Belmonte from 93.9 & 101.5 The River had me on his show this morning.  You can listen to the interview here.   It was such a fun experience to be interviewed by a fellow parent of a gender creative child!      All Posts Appearances Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ parenting Speaking The Center School Will I See You On Thursday?  On Thursday (April 10), The Center School in Greenfield, Massachusetts, has invited me to speak about parenting, teaching and promoting advocacy for differently gendered children.   The event begins at 7 p.m. at Smith College and it’s FREE!  If you’re in the area, you should attend and introduce yourself.  I’d love to meet you.  For real.  Bring your book and I’ll sign it.  Don’t have my book yet? Never fear, there will be copies on hand for purchase.  Click on the image above to go to The Center School’s website. I wish my kids could attend The Center School, which is a progressive, independent day school that fosters a balance of social consciousness and self-awareness in an environment where children are encouraged to be independent and resourceful.   It is the academic home to young deep thinkers and creative spirits.  I can’t wait to visit.  I love deep thinkers and creative spirits! * * * Are you a fellow Orange Countian?  Tomorrow at 11:20 a.m. in Irvine, I’ll be speaking on a panel of memoirists at Literary Orange 2014.  Should I save you a seat?      All Posts Appearances Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Greenfield LGBTQ Literary Orange Massachusetts Northampton Orange County parenting Smith College Speaking The Center School Friday Fodder: I’m Speaking In Massachusetts Edition  Meet Nate. He’s the protagonist in the children’s book that C.J. wrote. The book is in very limited release. There’s only one copy in print. And that copy is C.J.’s. I recently took C.J. to StoryMakery (in the Irvine Spectrum Center by our house). StoryMakery is the first self-publishing destination experience for kids. Children make their own characters and build their own stories from concept to completion. It’s like Build-A-Bear, but instead of leaving with a plush toy, kids leave with a book that they authored and illustrated. C.J. started by creating his main character Nate. Nate is a 20-year-old writer. He is gay and lives at home with his parents because he loves his house, his room and his family. He is single at the moment and loves to listen to pop music. He mostly wears pink even though gold is his all-time favorite color. He likes gymnastics and milk shakes. Alexa at StoryMakery helped C.J. on his one-hour journey to becoming a published author. Her and C.J. hit it off right away and she informed C.J. that his book was StoryMakery’s first ever to include a gay Pride scene. This is one of his greatest accomplishments to date. If you like children’s books that include Pride, gay men, magical unicorns, getting tans with mermaids and adventure-stopping, tutu-wearing elephants, read on. If you don’t like books that include those things, what’s wrong with you?! Nate’s Great Adventure One cool night, Nate dreamt about going on a magical journey. Nate was a bubbly and silly boy who loved to do gymnastics. He was full of imagination and intelligence, always wondering what adventure he could go on next. One night as Nate was falling into a deep sleep, he heard a knock at the door. He opened the door to find a magical unicorn. “Nate! Come with me on a magical journey. We will fly in the sky and met the most splendid people,” the unicorn exclaimed. “I would love to go, but I have to be back before the sun rises,” Nate told the unicorn. “Don’t worry, we will be back right on time,” the unicorn assured him. Nate crawled quietly out of bed and quickly packed his bag with a computer, some gymnastics grips, a blender, and milk shake ingredients. Nate was so excited to go on this journey. “I can’t believe this is actually happening!” “You will see everything you’ve dreamed of seeing,” the unicorn promised. Nate climbed on the unicorn’s back and the two traveled at lighting speed! As they were flying, they stopped by the Pride Parade. Together the friends enjoyed the parade. Nate and the unicorn then walked around Pride visiting different booths. They got to spin prize wheels and collect free gifts like hand sanitizer, phone cases, flags, pins, and gift cards. Nate had so much fun! Next, they passed dark mountains where an elephant lived. The mountains were surrounded by dark clouds and covered with fog. They were the tallest mountains that Nate had ever seen. “Oops!” the unicorn said, “Looks like we took a wrong turn.” “Oh, no! What’s in those mountains?” Nate asked with concern. “An adventure stopping elephant,” the unicorn replied. Nate was worried but he knew the unicorn would protect him. As they passed the mountains, the elephant came out of her cave. The elephant wore a tutu and was saying funny things in a loud voice while wiggling her arms. She was trying to stop them from continuing their adventure with her distracting motions. Nate was worried the adventure stopped here. Then he noticed that the unicorn had raised her hoof into the air. Using all of her might, the unicorn chanted, “Silly elephant go away. Disappear so we can fly away!” Within moments, the elephant disappeared. Nate was relieved that they could continue their journey. The unicorn flew them to a beach. At the beach, Nate and the unicorn met a mermaid named Kate. Nate, Kate, and the unicorn got a tan, built sandcastles, and went swimming. Kate the mermaid shared her starfish and seashell collection with Nate and the unicorn. Then she took them to the best place to watch the sun go down. “I could sit here all day!” Nate exclaimed, as he stared at the horizon. “You can visit anytime,” the unicorn said with a smile. All of a sudden, Nate noticed the time. He had to be home ten minutes! “I’m gong to be late!” he cried. “Don’t worry. I will get you back on time,” the unicorn promised. The unicorn flew over tunnels and waves, valleys and lakes, rivers and streams. Even though Nate knew he had to be home, he didn’t want his journey to end. He wondered for the first time if this was a dream or real life. The unicorn flew Nate right to his room just as the sun was rising. “This was the most magical journey of them all,” the unicorn said, “and I am so glad you came along for an adventure with me. I will always protect you, Nate.” Nate had already fallen asleep. He was so exhausted from the long journey. The unicorn flew silently out of the window and into the sky. When Nate awoke, he thought his adventure was a dream. Then he felt something underneath his pillow and lifted it up. There on Nate’s bed, the unicorn had left a snow globe of him, Kate and the unicorn at the beach watching the sunset. “The dream must have been real!”    All Posts Gay Gay pride gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Orange County parenting StoryMakery My Son’s Children’s Book Features Pride, Unicorns and Mermaids  These days, C.J. likes to chalk his hair before school. When you have a child with special or unique needs and a stranger treats them amazingly when they don’t have to, it makes you feel so damn good. It gives you hope and restores your faith in humanity. C.J.’s hair stylist, Miss. Crystal, is one of those people. We met Miss. Crystal three years ago. We hadn’t been to Cool Cuts 4 Kids in a while and decided to try it again after a particularly unpleasant experience at Hair Masters (during which the stylist was confused by C.J.’s gender nonconformity, gave him a horrible haircut and made us both cry). We walked into Cool Cuts 4 Kids and C.J. saw the “Princess Chair” in the back, right corner of the La Jolla hair salon. The Princess Chair has tulle draped around it and a pink canopy above it. It’s the station where they keep the hair beads, glitter, extensions, hair tinsel and clip-in feathers. The chair faces a Tinkerbell television on which the child can watch their pick of princess, Barbie or Strawberry Shortcake movies while the stylist works magic. I wish my salon had a Princess Chair. Of course C.J. wanted to sit in that chair. The other stylist’s chairs had firefighter, police and video game themes. The next available stylist approached the waiting area and called C.J.’s name. “Hi, I’m Miss. Crystal,” she said with a smile that was for real. “What movie do you want to watch?” C.J. pointed to a Strawberry Shortcake movie. Miss. Crystal was unfazed. She grabbed it without thinking twice. “What chair do you want to sit in?” she asked. C.J. looked at me. He didn’t want to tell her that he wanted to sit in the princess chair. He was nervous about her reaction. “Can he sit in the princess chair?” I asked. “Of course,” she said, not missing a beat. Miss. Crystal is energetic and kind. She’s in her twenties and her hair has been several colors since we’ve known her. Miss. Crystal can French braid short hair. For every haircut in the three years since that first visit, C.J. has sat in the Princess Chair and talked and talked and talked with Miss. Crystal. They giggle and gossip and it’s as if nobody else in the world exists. I sit on the nearby bench reading Us Magazine, happily feeling like the third wheel. Miss. Crystal knows all about C.J. She knows that he just had a birthday party at the American Girl Doll store; that he was Frankie Stein one year for Halloween, then a fairy and, most recently, Tim Burton’s Alice in Wonderland; and that he loves Monster High. One time, she saw Monster High stickers while she was running errands and bought them for C.J. She kept them in her locker until our next appointment. Just because. Miss. Crystal and C.J. share a love for all things Disney. Whenever someone mentions Disneyland, C.J. informs them that his hair stylist is a season passholder. For him, it’s bragging rights. When we first started going to Miss. Crystal, C.J. was growing his hair out. She helped give it shape and thin it out so that it lay better. It was past his ears and on its way to his shoulders when he decided to cut it before Kindergarten because he was worried that he’d get teased. Miss. Crystal was afraid to cut it. She was afraid that he’d hate it and, in turn, hate her. She took off a few inches and swore that if he still wanted it short the following week, she’d take off the rest. She kept her promise, but was sad to see his auburn locks hit the floor. We gave each other sad faces behind C.J.’s back. C.J. doing Miss. Crystal’s hair. Since then, she’s been helping us grow it out again. It’s the longest it’s ever been and he proudly wears it in a ponytail to sleep. Miss. Crystal has given C.J. blonde extensions, a full head of magenta glitter and has French braided his hair when I thought it was too short to be braided at all. She’s talked to him about what it’s like to be a hair stylist. And, now, he wants to be one too. And, own a salon. And, work with Miss. Crystal. And, I’m supposed to make lunch for them every day. Knowing this, now, when Miss. Crystal is done with C.J.’s hair, she lets him do her hair. During his last visit, he gave her the ponytails that she requested. Doing her hair is the favorite part of his hair appointment. It’s my favorite part, too.    All Posts Cool Cuts 4 Kids Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes hair LGBTQ Monster High parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow My Son’s Hair Stylist Is His Hero  C.J. recently celebrated his 100th day of first grade.  On that day, he had to fill in the blanks about what his life will be like when he is 100 years old.  He also had to draw a picture.  When I Am 100, By C.J. When I’m 100, it will be excellent!  First, I will go to sleep. Then, I will wear a sweater. Finally, I will say I love my kids. I think it will be excellent when I’m 100! Can we all take a moment to admire his fancy red cropped cardigan with ruffles and sassy pose (and blush and mascara)?    All Posts 100 first grade gender creative gender nonconforming Orange County parenting C.J. At Age 100  If you’ve been following the story about North Carolina’s Grayson Bruce, yesterday his school/district issued a reply: Statement from Buncombe County Schools after the meeting: We have appreciated the opportunity to meet with the Bruce family and discuss the issues. We sincerely regret that the issue of being told to leave the bookbag at home was perceived as blaming Grayson. While that was not the intent, the perception became reality. We support Grayson bringing the bookbag to school. We discussed a number of options to consider in moving forward for Grayson. All of the options discussed included a safety transition plan and an allowance for Grayson to bring the bookbag to school. Every situation with young children is a teachable moment and we will use this example in our efforts to address a wider issue of bullying. The Bruce family has committed to working with us to improve and enhance our anti-bullying programs. We ask for everyone’s patience and understanding as we continue to work collaboratively with the family toward a resolution that is best for Grayson and his classmates at Candler Elementary School. * * * A few months ago, I was introduced to the videos of Laurin Mayeno.  Laurin is the mother of a 25-year-old out, proud gay man who was gender creative as a child.  She has created three Proud Mom Videos in which she shares her experiences parenting her son, Danny.  She created the series with her son’s help to open hearts and minds, spark dialogue, build awareness and support families like her own. You should watch them and then poke around her Out Proud Families website:  http://www.outproudfamilies.com/?page_id=25 * * * GLSEN, The Matthew Shepard Foundation, Candlewick Press and author Leslea Newman have put together an expanded resource guide for Newman’s book, OCTOBER MOURNING: A SONG FOR MATTHEW SHEPARD.  The resource guide tells the story of Matthew Shepard, teaches themes of empathy and justice, implements LGBT-inclusive lesson plans, meets reading and writing standards and supports LGBT students. Check it out here: http://glsen.org/matthewshepard * * * I’ve been contacted by a director who is casting for a workshop of a play in which all actors are trans.  They are looking for someone who can play a 17 year old trans girl. Here’s more info: “MERISM” Your Name Here: A Queer Theater Company Workshop Production Producer:  {Your Name Here}: A Queer Theater Company   http://www.yournamehereqtc.org/ SUMMARY: Nina’s a 4.0 high school senior from a privileged family but when her mom won’t get out of bed she goes looking for parenting and support at a queer and trans youth drop-in center.   She quickly bonds with Bo, the only other transperson she sees and, as they become friends, urges him to come stay with her and her mom.  MERISM tells the story of three transpeople whose lives become inextricably connected. Actors can be any ethnicity, but must identify as trans or gender-queer.  It doesn’t matter where they are in their transition, as long as they identify as female.  The workshop takes place in New York City, so they need someone who lives in the tri-state area.  Actors will be paid. If you are interested, please contact Judy at judy@judybowmancasting.com or (917) 673-2655.    All Posts bullying Gay pride Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes GLSEN Grayson Bruce LGBTQ My Little Pony Out Proud Families parenting Friday Fodder: Grayson Can Take His Backpack To School Edition  Dear Buncombe County Schools, I recently read about your student Grayson Bruce being bullied for carrying a My Little Pony backpack to school.  I read that your response was that Grayson should leave his backpack at home because it is “a trigger for bullying” and has “become a distraction.” Your response surprised and angered me.  I understand that I’m relying solely on the mother’s quotes to the media, but I certainly hope that you reacted better than that.  After all, as youth-serving professionals you’re expected, trained and paid to act better than that. Why do I care?  Because I have a son who is seven and carries a Monster High backpack to school everyday.  I guess it’s a “girls backpack.”  I mean, it’s marketed mostly to girls, but he has never needed a vagina to operate it, so it seems silly to say it’s “for girls.”  Because I’m raising a boy who mostly likes things marketed to girls, I’ve had to educate myself and our school and district about the laws that they should already know.  I thought I’d take a minute to educate you, too, since you seem to be uninformed. Please get yourself familiar with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972; specifically the 2010 letter about Title IX issued by the United States Department of Education that was signed by the assistant secretary for civil rights. “Bullying fosters a climate of fear and disrespect that can seriously impair the physical and psychological health of its victims and create conditions that negatively affect learning, thereby undermining the ability of students to achieve their full potential. The movement to adopt anti-bullying policies reflects schools’ appreciation of their important responsibility to maintain a safe learning environment for all students. . . . School districts may violate these civil rights statutes…when peer harassment based on race, color, national origin, sex or disability is sufficiently serious that it creates a hostile environment and such harassment is encouraged, tolerated, not adequately addressed or ignored by school employees.” There is a whole section on gender-based harassment that you need to know. “(Title IX) prohibits gender-based harassment, which may include acts of verbal, nonverbal, or physical aggression, intimidation, or hostility based on sex or sex-stereotyping. Thus, it can be sex discrimination if students are harassed either for exhibiting what is perceived as a stereotypical characteristic for their sex, or for failing to conform to stereotypical notions of masculinity and femininity. Title IX also prohibits sexual harassment and gender-based harassment of all students, regardless of the actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity of the harasser or target. Title IX protects all students, including lesbian, gay, bi- sexual, and transgender (LGBT) students, from sex discrimination. . . . The fact that the harassment includes anti-LGBT comments or is partly based on the target’s actual or perceived sexual orientation does not relieve a school of its obligation under Title IX to investigate and remedy overlapping sexual harassment or gender-based harassment. . . . The school [has] an obligation to take immediate and effective action to eliminate the hostile environment.” You see, Grayson has the right to carry the backpack of his choice — just like every other student in your schools – and he has the right to a safe learning environment.   You have an obligation to see to it that those rights are protected. You need to improve your campus culture, follow the discipline/behavior-management policy your school has adopted and send all students who have witnessed the homophobic bullying the message that their rights will be protected by school faculty and staff in accordance with state and federal laws.  Teach your students to do the right thing by leading by example. As much as you have failed Grayson, you’ve also failed his bullies.  You need to help them learn the difference between appropriate and inappropriate behaviors.  If backpacks are triggers to these kids, they need help.  They need to be able to see a backpack and not act out in dangerous, antisocial and harmful ways.  After all, backpacks are everywhere. And, imagine, if your bully students are acting like this in grade school, what kind of behaviors will they be displaying in middle school, high school and beyond, when there is no school structure to support them? The age-inappropriate language and behaviors of the bullies indicate that they are children at risk.  Research shows that bullying behavior is a predictive behavior of adult violence.  You can help curb adult violence, so you should. I posted the People Magazine article about Grayson and your schools on my Facebook page.  I received 2,553 likes, 407 comments and 216 shares.  Wow, that’s a lot, right? Most people agreed with me that you should be working to modify the behaviors of the bullies, not the behaviors of the bullied.  The people who disagreed with me and agreed with you had some typical responses that are dangerous, narrow-minded and hopefully aren’t shared by youth-serving professionals such as yourself.   Even if you do share those views, you can’t let them get in the way of laws that you are obligated to abide by. Sincerely, Lori Duron    All Posts Backpack bully bullying Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Grayson Bruce Monster High My Little Pony Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Title IX US Department of Education Buncombe County Schools, You’re Doing It All Wrong  First, stop everything you’re doing and read The Mother Company’s interview with my rad hubby, Matt.  A lot of times when they see our son wearing a dress or playing with dolls, people ask “Where’s the kid’s father?!”  To that I say, he’s right here, by my side, being equally awesome, loving and supportive of both of our sons – no matter their likes, dislikes, gender expression, gender identity, etc. When you’re done reading the interview, be sure to come back here, we have a lot to cover this week. * * * And, the winner of this week’s book giveaway is….Teresa Kander! Congrats, you’ve won a signed copy of Sarah and Ian Hoffman’s Jacob’s New Dress.  Email your mailing address to raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com and I’ll drop the book in the mail next week.  Yay, you! Thanks to everyone who entered to win by letting me know what books are favorites of your gender creative and ally family.  I’ve added a few new titles to my shopping list and will create a full list and post here soon. *  *  * This week, I found out that Raising My Rainbow is a finalist for the 2014 Randy Shilts Award for Gay Nonfiction, presented by the Publishing Triangle.  The winner will be announced at an awards ceremony on Thursday, April 24, at The New School in New York City.  It’d be an honor to win.  Cross your fingers and everything else for me, please. * * * My speaking calendar is filling up for spring and we should meet.  Here are my upcoming events: This Wednesday, March 19, I’ll be at the PFLAG Los Angeles meeting.  Will I see you there? And, on Saturday, April 5, I’ll be on a panel of memoirists at Literary Orange 2014 in Orange County.  Should I save you a seat? * * * Two interviews with me ran this week.  You can check them out here, if you’re not sick of me: Interview with Lori Duron, Author of Raising My Rainbow, The Phil Factor Q&A with author Lori Duron, Deborah Kalb Books * * * These news stories interested me this week: This Gay 12-Year-Old Reveals Challenges For LGBT Youth In America, Queerty When a Little Kid Gives Adults a Lesson In Humanity…, The Meta Picture  The Growing Transgender Presence in Pop Culture, The New York Times    All Posts Award Awards gender creative gender nonconforming Ian Hoffman Jacob's New Dress LGBTQ Matt Matt Duron parenting PFLAG Sarah Hoffman The Mother Company Triangle Publishing Friday Fodder: Interview With Matt Edition  We’ve added an awesome new book to our bookshelf! Jacob’s New Dress came out on March 1. We’ve been waiting for it and it didn’t disappoint. Jacob loves playing dress-up, when he can be anything he wants to be. Some kids at school say he can’t wear “girl” clothes, but Jacob wants to wear a dress to school. Can he convince his parents to let him wear what he wants? This heartwarming story speaks to the unique challenges faced by boys who don’t identify with traditional gender roles. Want Jacobs’s New Dress for your bookshelf?  I have a signed copy to give away! For the chance to win, leave a comment below letting us know what book(s) you think gender creative and ally families should have on their shelves. A winner will be announced on Friday. Good luck!    All Posts books Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Giveaway Jacob's New Dress parenting Sarah Hoffman Book Giveaway: Jacob’s New Dress  One week ago, we launched Rainbows At Play – an online community where families raising gender creative kids and/or allies can connect to playdate and find fierceness in numbers.  The response has been overwhelming, exhausting and exhilarating. In the first seven days, the community welcomed more than 150 families from across the US.  We have connected families and playdates are being set up in 22 states!  California Connecticut Georgia Idaho Indiana Kansas Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Missouri Nevada New York North Carolina Oklahoma Pennsylvania South Carolina Tennessee Texas Vermont Virginia Washington Wisconsin  We’ve had about a dozen families join from Canada and have playdates in the works in Ontario and Quebec. And, most surprising…we’ve gone international!  Families are arranging playdates in:  Australia Ecuador France Scotland Spain  The response has been so great, that we’ve brought on two moderators to help us manage the community.  Three cheers and a toast to our bestie Sarah Manley from NerdyApple.com and THE Cory Byrom. Community members who have yet to find other families in their area are gabbing it up in the “Community Chat” area.  There, we currently have seven different conversations going about everything from school, parenting and where to get fabulous clothes for young gender benders. We remain giddy and emotional about Rainbows At Play and the good things that are happening in the community.  Help us spread the word and the sparkle.  The more gender creative and ally families that join, the better. Let’s Get Playing! Lori and Kelly * * * Also this week, I attended the Stonewall National Education Project’s 2nd Annual Conference, where I had the chance to meet with educators, administrators and other youth-serving professionals to talk about what it’s like to raise differently gendered child.   I’m already looking forward to next year’s conference! * * * If you live in Orange County, join Youth Empowered to Act (YETA) and Garden Grove High School’s Gay Straight Alliance (GSA) at their upcoming LGBTQ Student Rights Community Forum, where attendees will learn about the protections and rights of LGBTQ and allied students. Parents, students and community members are encouraged to attend this free event and no RSVP is required. Thursday, March 13//6 – 8p.m.//Garden Grove High School * * *    All Posts Bestie Gay Gay pride Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Nerdy Apple Orange County Rainbows At Play Stonewall Friday Fodder: Rainbows At Play Edition  It all started years ago when we went looking for other families like our own — families raising gender bending boys who like wearing skirts and playing with dolls.  We came up with nothing…until we found each other.  Every day we are grateful for the relationships that have developed between our families.  We’ve always been aware that we have it good and, now, we are giddy as hell to help other families connect. This blog post marks the official launch of Rainbows At Play.  Rainbows At Play is an online community that connects families raising gender nonconforming kids so they can playdate and find fierceness in numbers.  Here’s how to join:  You must be a primary caregiver of a differently gendered child.  (If you are not raising a child, please don’t join the community.  Help us keep Rainbows At Play kiddos and families safe by only joining if you are an adult primary caregiver.  We will post updates to our blogs about Rainbows At Play that will allow others to join in on the joy and happiness of the community.  You can also follow us on Twitter and Facebook for updates and fun peeks into the Rainbows At Play community.  We hate to be exclusive, unwelcoming and uninviting.  We hope you understand why we have to be when it comes to this very special project.) If you don’t already have a Lefora.com membership, go there and create an account so that you can access communities, groups and forums hosted by Lefora. Go to Rainbows.Lefora.com and fill out the application. Be patient.  Initially, Kelly and I will be reviewing all applications ourselves.  We hope to have so many families apply that it takes us a few days to get to new applications.  Wouldn’t that be wonderful?  The more who join, the better your odds of finding a local playdate mate and family just like yours. Once you are accepted into the community, read the “Rules and Guidelines” and “Getting Started” topics found at the top of the Community’s homepage. Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter. Spread the word and the sparkle.  This parenting journey can be lonely, but it doesn’t have to be.  Let’s get playing! Lori and Kelly Raising My Rainbow and Living A Bold Life    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Kelly Living A Bold Life Orange County parenting playdates Rainbows At Play raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow twirl Introducing Rainbows At Play!  I was honored when the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) asked me to write about my reactions to the “Supporting and Caring for Our Gender Expansive Youth” report they released yesterday.  The report compiles findings from their recent Youth Survey and was co-authored by Gender Spectrum. You must read the report.  It’s devastating and will show you that we need to do better — we have to do better — for the sake of differently gendered kids. And, if you have time, ready my essay, here’s an excerpt: “Sometimes (C.J.) dulls his sparkle because others don’t know what to make of it.  He’s had people hurl homophobic slurs at him.  He’s had peers in the school bathroom try to see if he has a penis or vagina.  He’s had adults tell him to stop being a sissy and to “man up.”  Today, he was told to “go jump off of the Tyler Clementi Memorial Bridge.”  All because my seven-year-old boy likes pink more than blue, dolls more than trucks, skirts more than pants. It’s scary raising a child; it’s even scarier raising a gender nonconforming child…. Imagine raising a child who — according to the survey – will feel less happy than their peers; is more likely to experiment with drugs and alcohol; views their life goals as unachievable; believes they have to leave home in order to be accepted; feels unsafe at school; and finds religion to be unloving.” * * * Here are two fundraising campaigns that you might be interested in: QUIRKIE KIDS is hoping to raise $2,500 in the next 30 days to launch a line of pink tees for girls AND boys with playful designs not normally associated with the color pink. QUIRKIE KIDS believes that all kids should be free to wear pink and is working and gives kids more options to express themselves through their clothing.  Click here to check out the campaign. The documentary Inside Out has also launched a 30-day funding blitz.  They are asking 80,000 caring people to donate $10 (the price of a movie ticket) to fund the first feature film to go deep inside the lives of transgender and gender non-conforming children and their families. By following the journeys of five children over one year audiences will understand their hopes, fears and— often difficult— decisions. Inside Out puts a human face on these stories and, in doing so, inspires empathy, increases awareness and broadens the public’s understanding of people.  Click here to learn more and/or donate.    All Posts bullying documentary Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Spectrum Gender Stereotypes HRC Human Rights Campaign Inside Out InsideOut LGBTQ parenting Quirkie Kids transgender Youth Survey Friday Fodder: HRC and Me Edition  Photo: USA Today Sports In mid-January, one of my friends posted on my Facebook wall: Friend:  I was watching that viral video of Jason Brown ice skating, and I had this sudden realization that your son is about to experience Olympic-level ice skating. Me: He doesn’t even know what he’s in for. I am ridiculously excited. Friend: It’s gonna be life-changing. My friend was right — probably because if he lived closer and were 30 years younger, he and C.J. would be inseparable and a fierce force to be reckoned with. I waited weeks for the Olympics to get underway and set the DVR to record.  Over the weekend, Matt and I sat down with our sons to watch the games. Chase loved the snowboarding and skiing events.  C.J. only loved them when somebody crashed.   Which is rude, but honest, I guess. When figure skating came on, I watched C.J. “Is this still the Olympics?” he asked confused.  How could we have possibly gone from barreling down a mountain on a board to dancing gracefully on glimmering ice? We were watching Meryl Davis and Charlie White compete for the U.S. “Are they in love?” C.J. asked me. “I have no idea.” “If they kiss we’ll know for sure that they are in love,” he assured me.  They never kissed.  They must not be in love. Photo: Ottowa Sun We watched Canada’s Kaetlyn Osmond perform. “She’s really good,” I said when she was finished.  Stating the obvious. “Well, she’s 18, what do you expect?!” he said as he turned to give me an exasperated look.  When he took his eyes off of the screen the judges delivered her results. “Go back, go back, go back!  I want to see her skirt and her score!” I grabbed my laptop and pulled up the video of Jason Brown’s long program at the U.S. National Championships last month. “Wait.  A.  Minute.  I love his ponytail and glitter costume.  I like his style,” C.J. exclaimed. He watched the video, entranced for seven minutes and 22 seconds.  At one point he was clapping as he watched. “What are they throwing at him?!” he asked at the end. “Flowers.” “Why?” “Cause they liked him so much.” “Awwwwwwwwweeeeeee…….” Photo: Getty Images At night, while C.J. was in bed, I watched Jason Brown skate the same performance at the Olympics.  It was perfect, except that he had a small fall.  My heart broke, for Jason and my son. The next night C.J. wanted to watch Jason Brown at the Olympics, so I turned it on.  C.J. watched the television and I watched C.J. Jason fell. “What?  What was that?!  What just happened?  Was that part of the routine?” C.J asked not taking his eyes off of the screen. “No, he fell.  And, then he picked himself up and kept on going. “Well, it’s okay, maybe nobody noticed.  Yeah, maybe nobody noticed.  Maybe everybody thought that was one of his fancy tricks,” C.J. said trying assure himself that everything was going to be okay. It was time for Jason’s score.  153 point something. “Well that’s good.  Anything over 100 is really good because 100 is a lot.” C.J.’s hand was on his chest in relief.  We know nothing about figure skating scoring, but Jason was smiling and seemed happy so we were too. My friend Nerdy Apple sent us a video of Jason Brown skating at the Olympics with fart noises strategically overlaid.  Farting Figure Skating.  I tried to show it to only Chase, but Chase was laughing so loudly that nosey C.J. came running downstairs inquiring about what was so funny. “Show him, show him, you’ve got to show him!” Chase said through a crying, pee-your-pants laughter. I showed C.J. “Is that for real?  Was he farting the whole time?” he asked very seriously. “No, it’s a joke.  He wasn’t farting.” It took a minute for him to accept it and get over the shock.  Then he smiled. “Play it again,” he said. I did and he laughed too.   A fart joke aficionado, C.J. now loves Jason Brown even more.    All Posts Figure Skating gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Jason Brown Kaetlyn Osmond LGBTQ Olympics Sochi Olympics My Son Has Discovered Figure Skating  Following are highlights from our month on Instagram. Click here for all of the months’ pictures, thoughts and happenings. If you’re on Instagram, follow me. If you already follow me, thanks!  I love my brother and am so thankful for him. He watched the boys all weekend so Matt and I could sneak away to Seattle with friends. He helped Chase host a pool party, took him shopping for school supplies, got him a haircut and took him to his first high school dance. He introduced CJ to *Birdcage* and *The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert* and bought him his first curling iron. He had a pork roast and mashed potatoes waiting for us when we got home. I learned how to parent an LGBTQ child by watching my parents raise Michael and doing the opposite of what they did. Matt and I aren’t alone in raising our boys; Uncle Michael is with us every step of the way. He loves the boys, he worries about them, celebrates them and spoils them. The boys see him as equal parts fun parent and loyal best friend. If you don’t have an Uncle Michael in your life, you should get one.   “David was threatening because it was a different consciousness. Whatever you want to call it — the feminization of the male or whatever it was — us boy/girls were a threat.” — Mick Rock, David Bowie’s official photographer. Matt and I visited the Museum of Pop Culture while in Seattle this weekend. The “Bowie by Mick Rock” exhibit was my favorite. I read this quote over and over. Back then, boy/girls were a threat. Today boy/girls are a threat. When will boy/girls stop being a threat? First writing prompt of the 5th grade: How would you spend one million dollars? “I would love to spend one million $. First, I would travel. I would travel to Hawaii and New York City. Next, I would spend some money on clothes, such as designer bags and designer hats. Finally, I would go shopping. I would buy a curling iron and a lot of makeup. I would love to spend a million $.” (By CJ, age 10) Please note: The paragraph was written before Uncle Michael bought him his first curling iron. So, CJ’s dreams are already coming true.   “A bunch of people ask me how I can possibly be so awesome. I tell them, ‘in the words of Lady Gaga, I was born this way’.” — CJ, age 10. For the record, I’ve never heard anyone, let alone “a bunch” of people, ask him how he can possibly be so awesome. But I’m glad he has a standard answer, I guess.   CJ scored these roller skates last time we went antiquing. Like every 10-year-old boy, antiquing is one of his favorite weekend activities. He felt that $12 was a steal for these skates because – according to the label – they are “official roller derby skates.” $12 is a good price for anything that’s “official,” he told me. When I was CJ’s age, one of my favorite weekend activities was getting my brother and his boom box out to the front yard so we could choreograph roller skating routines like we were in Xanadu. #likeunclelikenephew   “Mom, I’m going to do this to you and two of your girlfriends. You just all sit close together and I’m gonna braid your hair together in one big braid. It will be fun and awesome.” — CJ, age 10   “Don’t worry, mom. I already warned my teacher that if I’m tired today it’s because I was at a music video premiere at the YouTube Space in LA last night,” CJ.   CJ is the biggest fan of his own fashion designs. To make your own pair of “gay shorts inspired by the boys who were at pride,” cut off a pair of jeans, hem them, add some embroidery detail and attach suspenders. Voila! Then, try to wear them every day and have an attitude when your mom says you can’t. Be courageous.        All Posts Gay Gay pride Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Orange County parenting Our Month in Review: September 2017  C.J. turned seven on Saturday.  My baby is growing up.  He’d been planning his birthday celebration for three months – the amount of time he usually puts into preparing for big life moments like his birthday, nobody else’s birthday, Christmas, Halloween and the end of the school year. This year’s celebration took the cake; we may have peaked with his seventh birthday party. We spent the night before at our friend Marie’s house in her RV in her backyard, which is one of C.J.’s favorite things to do.  He loves glamping.  We woke up and walked across the backyard into the house where Matt and I prepared birthday cake pancakes.  As with most things I get off of Pinterest, the results were sub-par.  But, like a good mom will tell you, if the worst part of the day was pancakes that wouldn’t cook all the way through, it’s a good day. We took our time getting dressed and primped.  C.J. had his outfit laid out for a week.  He selected: his black Chuck Taylor All Stars, gray super skinny jeans, a pink-leopard-print skinny belt, a studded Monster High t-shirt and a pink oxford shirt.  He decided not to chalk his hair because he was afraid it would detract from the birthday crown he knew he would be getting.  He also dressed his American Girl doll, Julie, in a party outfit that he pulled together for her after much thought. All of the party goers loaded into Marie’s van (thanks for driving, Marie!  I still owe you gas money).  C.J.  Me.  Marie.  Marie’s daughters Grace and Kate.  My friend KK and her daughter Saige.  And we were off….to the American Girl Place at The Grove in Los Angeles!!!!!!!! I had booked a 12:30 p.m. party in the American Girl Café.  I don’t know who was more excited: C.J., me, Marie, Grace or KK.  Kate and Saige were trying to play it cool because they are 13 and 10 and way too cool for dolls, but they were excited deep down inside. When I called American Girl in December to make a reservation (it’s a tough one to get), I was pleasantly surprised when the American Girl customer service rep asked, “What is the birthday child’s name?  How old will the birthday child be turning?”  She didn’t assume that the birthday child was a girl.  I told her that the birthday child was a boy and there wasn’t a moment’s hesitation. “Do you a lot of boys celebrate their birthdays at the American Girl Place?” I asked because I’m always curious. “It’s not common, but it happens frequently,” she replied, not skipping a beat. “Do you do anything differently depending on whether the birthday child is a girl or a boy?” I asked.  They didn’t.  I was pleased, again.  I like it when things seem easy. Uncle Michael and two of his friends met us at the American Girl Place.  C.J. was given the pink, glittery birthday crown that he had been waiting (and not-hair-chalking) for.  American Girl Julie also got a crown.  And, they both got a sticker that said “Happy Birthday!” We were seated at our table for 10.  This is where our crowd really went wild.  Everybody who brought a doll got a high chair for their doll so that all dolls joined us at the table.  If you didn’t bring a doll, you could borrow one from the Café’s shelves.  C.J. had me borrow Ivy.  She is Julie’s BFF and he wanted the girls to be together at his party.  But, he also wanted to spend some time with Isabelle, the 2014 American Girl of the Year.  So, he let (made) Uncle Michael borrow Isabelle. So, there we were, 10 humans and six dolls.  The server walked over to greet us and say happy birthday to C.J.  Then, she said, “What does the birthday girl want to drink?” C.J. looked at me, wide eyed.  I put my hand on his arm and said “The birthday boy would like an Arnold Palmer.” “Oh, I’m so sorry,” the server said. Out came our drinks and each doll got a tiny teacup and saucer.  C.J. and Marie smiled and squealed.  Out came our appetizers.  All miniature foods.  More smiles and squeals. The Café manager approached our table. “Are you the birthday girl?” she asked C.J.  He looked at me. “He’s the birthday boy,” I said.  This was getting exhausting.  I usually don’t speak for him so often, but I wasn’t going to let anything dampen his day. We ate.  The dolls ate.  The cake was placed in front of C.J. and we sang Happy Birthday.  He leaned back, drew in a breath, his cheeks puffed out, be began to blow and, then, he stopped suddenly. “Oh, I need a minute, I didn’t make a wish,” he said with concern.  Pink candles were melting onto the pink and white cake.  I was fighting the urge to rush him.  He must have come up with something, because he blew out the candles and we erupted in applause.  My boy beamed. There’s a holder for your doll in the bathroom stall so that she can watch you pee. Not weird at all. After lunch we entered the two-story American Girl Store and C.J. was more overwhelmed than I have ever seen him.  There was so much to look at and so much he wanted. We stopped by the doll hospital, where you could check your doll in for healing (repairs).  We visited the doll salon where dolls were getting elaborate up-dos.  Uncle Michael in particular was fascinated by this section of the store and snapping pics with his phone.  Then, a moment that C.J. had been waiting for arrived.  Julie got in line to get her ears pierced.  You can watch your doll get her hair done, but you can’t watch her get her ears pierced.  I’ve heard that’s because they use a drill to make holes in her head and that would prove traumatizing for children.  I haven’t shared this information with C.J.  I stood with him in the waiting area and when Julie was presented to us with small shiny stars in her ears, he was all happiness. Uncle Michael spoiled him with the American Girl gymnastics equipment set; KK and Saige bought him a skirt; Uncle Michael’s friends bought him and Julie a white dog named Coconut; and I bought him a wheelchair for his doll.  Presumably to use as she recovers from some injury incurred on the gymnastics set – although, once home, he put Julie in the wheelchair and pushed her down the stairs (more than once or 15 times). The American Girl Place was overwhelming for all of us and we weren’t disappointed to leave after three hours. C.J. fell asleep in the car as we headed home to celebrate the big “7” with Matt, Chase and my parents.  He continued to luck out in the gift department.  He wanted Monster High dolls and Lego Friends sets…and he got them. When I went to work on Monday morning a coworker asked me if everything went okay at the American Girl store and if people were staring at C.J. because he was a boy celebrating his birthday at doll store.   I don’t know.  I don’t know if people were staring at us, because I was staring at C.J.  And the view was fabulous.    All Posts American Girl American Girl Doll American Girl Store Birthday gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Ivy Julie Lego Friends Los Angeles Monster High Orange County parenting The Grove Happy 7th Birthday, C.J.!  The other day I was at the house of one of my favorite neighbors. We were discussing our children. Her kids are all in their 20s and her youngest is autistic. Family hike. #goodday She has read my book and blog and was talking about the similarities she sees in raising an autistic child and raising a gender nonconforming child. The stares. The judgments. The questions. The isolation. The impact on siblings. The self-doubt.  The stress. The worry.  The planning, predicting and protecting. She, like me, feels like she always has to be predicting and planning for the moments that come after the one that is happening.  We’re constantly trying to think one or two or seven steps ahead to avoid unpleasant people and uncomfortable scenarios. “I hate that sometimes you don’t know that you’re having a good day until the day is over,” she said. “You wish you had known when it was happening but you were too busy doing everything in your power to make it a good day — or at least not a bad day.” She was absolutely right. I had never thought about it. Saw this dog on the way to dinner. #goodday At school, were worried about C.J. using the restroom privately and safely, were worried about him being bullied on the playground and we’re worried that his teacher will continue to do activities divided by gender. At gymnastics we worry that someone will make fun of his painted toenails and long hair and make him want to quit a sport that he loves so much and has the potential to be really good at. On a recent weekend getaway we worried when we saw another child staring at C.J., then snicker, then walk up to him, look him up and down and — with a disgusted look — ask if he is a boy or a girl. Learning to knit. #goodday We spend so much time worrying, predicting, planning and protecting that often it’s not until I’m lying in bed at night — mapping out the next day — that I reflect and think to myself, “Today was a good day.  Today was a great day.  We rocked today.  I liked today.” And that’s a shame. I want to enjoy the day as we are living it.  I need to worry less.  That seems doable. I need to predict, plan and protect less.  I’m afraid those habits will be hard to break.  I’ve been doing them every moment of every day for the past four years.  It’s become a way of life. “I can’t not be thinking of the ten scenarios that could happen ten steps ahead,” I said to my neighbor. “I know. It’s what moms do when we have a child with special needs.” “It’s exhausting.” I said.  She agreed wholeheartedly. Our view at breakfast. #goodday I imagined how simple life would be if we didn’t have to live like this, if we could realize as the day was happening that it was a good one. I’ve been making a point to stop throughout the day and take inventory.  Is it a good day?  Yes.  They’ve all been good days recently.  What if a bad day happens?  We’ll deal with it then, so let’s not worry about it now.  That’s what I tell myself.  It’s nice to hear.  But it’s easier said than done.      All Posts bully bullying gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ parenting Raising My Rainbow We Don’t Know It’s A Good Day Until It’s Over  Okay, I’m thinking out loud here.  I see a need.  I’ve seen it for more than a year now.  I’m often contacted by adults raising a gender creative child who are looking for other gender creative families to playdate with.  I’ve managed to connect a few and that has felt awesome.  We love our gender nonconforming playgroup and it’s so important that C.J. be able to play with other boys who like to do nails and put on fashion shows.  I’m sad when I think about gender creative kids who have never met or played with another gender creative kid.  That sucks.  And, parents and siblings benefit from our playgroup too.  It’s a win-win dressed in pink and dipped in rhinestones. In the past, when a family has contacted me asking if I know of anybody in their area to meet up with, I put a call out on my blog and social media.  (Are you following me on Facebook and Twitter?  You should be.  You’re missing important posts like this and thoughts from C.J.).  Sometimes my calls are answered by families close to the original family.  I get permission from both families to share their email address and first name and, then, I make a e-introduction and tell them to have fun, respect each other’s anonymity and let me know how things go. I’ve done this for families in:  California Canada Georgia Hong Kong Illinois Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Ohio Oregon Philadelphia New Jersey New York Washington  I’m getting more of these requests and I want to help.  But, how do I do it?  The same way I have been?  Set up a separate page on this site?  How much work and liability do I assume?  How do I manage something that could take on a life of its own?  Do you know of anybody already providing this service who I can point interested parties to? I see a void and want to fill it, but how?  Your suggestions are greatly appreciated.    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Orange County parenting playdate playgroup raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Friday Fodder: I See A Need Edition  Back in September, I wrote an essay for Parents.com containing my advice for raising a gender creative boy.   I got wordy – as I tend to do – and the word count of my original essay was edited down.  I get asked (a lot) for my advice and, so, I’m publishing my full essay here now.  If you have advice, please leave a comment below. My youngest son is six years old and his life is divided into two parts: before Barbie and after Barbie. During the first two and a half years of his life, C.J. was largely underwhelmed buy the clothes and toys passed down from his older brother.  Nothing seemed to excite him, until he discovered a new Barbie in the back of my closet.  He insisted on opening the box and playing with her.  By his third birthday he could name every Disney Princess and her movie of origin.  Shortly thereafter he started dressing like a girl at home.   When he was old enough to explain himself, he told us that he is a boy who only likes girl things and wants to be treated like a girl. I wanted information about raising a child like mine – a little boy who was a girl at heart, with a penchant for pink, sparkles and everything fabulous – but couldn’t find any.  I searched for blogs.  Nothing.  I searched popular parenting sites.  Nothing.  I conducted countless, random Google searches.  Nothing. I complained about the lack of information to my friends.  They all agreed that I couldn’t possibly be the only person cyber-searching and that I should start my own blog. After months of procrastination, I did it.  RaisingMyRainbow.com went live in January 2011. My readers quickly educated me; they are the ones who taught me that my son is gender nonconforming.  That was back when I had no idea what I was doing or what I was writing about.  Now that I know a little more, I try to help the people who contact me with questions or concerns about raising a child who shuns traditional gender norms. Here are the things that I most often tell them: Chill out and give it some time.  My husband and I have been there, in that early, panicked rush to figure out what was going on with our son and if he was going through a phase or if his behaviors had some deeper meaning.  The only way to tell if something is a phase is to wait it out and patiently observe it.  If the behaviors go on for an extended period of time your child may be gender nonconforming.  My son has definitely taught me patience. Search out resources and funnel your energy into getting educated.  Learn the distinct differences between sex, gender and sexuality.  Sex is what’s in your underwear that determines if you are male or female.  Gender is what’s in your brain that tells you if you are male or female.  And sexuality is what’s in your heart that tells you who you are attracted to.  Read Diane Ehrensaft’s Gender Born, Gender Made and my book Raising My Rainbow.  PFLAG and Gender Spectrum are amazing organizations and resources for families like ours.  Support is out there, I promise. Ask yourself some tough questions and make decisions.   Is your job to love your child or change him?  Is your child free to be who he was created to be?  Is there room for shame in childhood?  Who are you working to make feel comfortable, your child or everyone else?  Will you be his first bully? This isn’t about you so don’t take it personal.   According to Gender Spectrum, significant gender variance or a transgender identity occurs in as many as one of every 500 births – making it more common than childhood diabetes.  A few months after C.J. found Barbie, I found the following quote: “You have to go the way your blood beats. If you don’t live the only life you have, you won’t live some other life, you won’t live any life at all.”  I want my son to live a life.  I have to let him go the way his blood beats. Gather a stellar supporting cast.  Like any family raising a child with special or unique needs, you’ll benefit from help.  We’d be lost without our family, friends, pediatrician, therapist and child advocate.  Children like C.J. have the highest rate of suicide attempts in the world and are much more likely to suffer from major depressions, substance abuse and unsafe sexual behaviors.  To raise a healthy gender nonconforming child, it’s going to take more than one or two people. Don’t forget the siblings.  Diane Ehrensaft recently said, “It takes a family to launch a gender nonconforming child, but that’s not necessarily what a sibling wants to do or how they want to spend their time.  Are we asking siblings to step outside their comfort zone and/or do too much?”   Siblings have their own anxieties, confusions and vulnerabilities.  They need empathy and support, too. Know your child’s rights at school and know that their siblings are a protected as well.   We always expected that C.J. would be bullied and teased for his gender nonconformity, but we didn’t anticipate that his older brother would have to endure it first.  The Human Rights Campaign’s Welcoming Schools program has a wealth of information, as does Gender Spectrum.  Get yourself really familiar with Title IX and your state’s safe school laws. Show your child examples of other kids like him.   We are lucky enough to be a part of a gender nonconforming playgroup.  Every month or so, my son gets to play with a group of boys just like him.  Not everyone is that lucky.  Before we had our playgroup, we read lots of books about kids who are gender nonconforming or different from the norms of society.  Our favorites are The Boy Who Cried Fabulous, A Fire Engine for Ruthie and anything else by Leslea Newman.  We also love My Princess Boy by Cheryl Kilodavis and Roland Humphrey is Wearing a What? by Eileen Kiernan-Johnson.   Todd Parr books are great, too. Enjoy the path less traveled.  You’re not weird, you’re different and if everybody were the same this world would be a very boring place.  Paint nails, braid hair, tap dance, smile big.  We watch everybody stressing out to keep up with the Joneses as our son sketches a dress he wants to sew for himself.  Then he takes a bath with strawberry scented soap and spritzes himself with raspberry-vanilla body spray before putting on his nightgown. Diane Ehrensaft has said, “Gender creative children are blessed with the ability to hold on to the concept — that we all had one time in our lives — that we were free to be anything we wanted – boy, girl, maybe both.” Or son continues to hold on to the concept and he has retaught it to us as well.    All Posts Barbie bully bullying effeminate gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Spectrum LGBTQ parenting PFLAG raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow My Advice For Raising A Gender Creative Son  Here are the things that caught my attention this week.  🙂 The Human Rights Campaign Foundation presents Time To THRIVE,  the inaugural national conference promoting safety, inclusion and well-being for LGBTQ youth…everywhere! Time to THRIVE will take place over Presidents’ Day Weekend (February 14-16, 2014) at Bally’s Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas. The conference provides a “one-stop-shop” opportunity for youth-serving professionals to build the awareness and cultural competency, learn current and emerging best practices, and gather resources from leading experts and national organizations in the field. Check out the conference website:  www.TimeToThrive.org * * * PFLAG National — through its Straight for Equality project — is working on a new resource to invite, educate and engage allies of people who are transgender and gender nonconforming and they need your help!  They are looking for your answers to the following questions: 1. If you consider yourself a trans ally please share your answer to this question: What was the turning point or event that led you to support inclusion and equality for people who are transgender? 2. If you identify as trans or gender nonconforming please share your answer to one of the following questions: Can you share a story about a time where an ally (or lack of one) had a real impact on your life? Based on your personal experience, if you could tell trans allies one thing what would it be?    3. If you are the parent of a trans or gender nonconforming child/youth please share your answer to one of the following questions. If your child is comfortable with providing her/his own feedback, we’d genuinely appreciate the input! What was there the turning point that led you to become an advocate for your child?  What roles have non-family allies played in you/your child’s life? Answer the questions in four to five sentences each and submit your responses to jhenkel@pflag.org.  They’ll review the feedback, and if your response is used for the publication, they will contact you directly to confirm. Only first names, ages and locations (e.g., city and state) will be used in the publication. Learn more here:  http://www.straightforequality.org/questions * * * Stonewall National Education Project’s second national symposium will be held on March 3-5 in Los Angeles.   At the conference, Stonewall National Education Project will widen its scope to include not only school districts that are at the forefront of the LGBT-inclusive education movement, but also those that are just getting started in their consciousness-raising efforts.  Original school districts will return and serve as mentors.  In addition to the ongoing theme of sharing best practices, symposium workshops will focus on these three pillars: LGBT safety, policy and curriculum. Learn more: http://www.stonewallnationalmuseum.org/education/programs/ * * * This was my favorite dress, in case you care. (photo from E!) Last, but never least, is C.J.’s BFF Twirl (a seven-year-old, gender creative, fashion and design prodigy).  Read Twirl’s thoughts on the looks from the 2014 Golden Globes and wish you had half his style sense.    All Posts bullying Gender gender creative gender nonconforming HRC Human Rights Campaign LGBTQ PFLAG Stonewall transgender twirl Friday Fodder: HRC, PFLAG, Stonewall and Twirl Edition  One of my very best friends in the whole wide world is Marie.  If you’ve read my book, she’s in there.  She’s the one who, after I mentioned the idea of starting this blog once, would never let me not do it.  She’s encouraging and awesome like that.  She’s also accompanied me on many, many adventures in support of the blog and book – she has now ridden a subway, danced the night away in a gay club, stood with me lost for an hour on a less-than-desireable street corner and sat through more gender/LGBTQ presentations and workshops than most licensed professionals. During our many adventures, she is often asked what it’s like to be friends with us, how she supports our family as we raise C.J. and what non-family allies can do to help.  Here are her thoughts.  Marie’s daughter Grace is four weeks older than C.J. They love each other. I have been friends with C.J.’s Mom for about 15 years now.  We met in college and bonded over our love of the written word and literature on a trip hosted by our fabulous English professor.  We have been through births, miscarriages, silly times, sad times, drunk times and — of utmost importance — parenting times. Parenting isn’t easy.  Period.  There are no manuals; we all know this.  God sometimes throws curve balls at us.  Well, he threw one right into C.J.’s Mom and C.J.’s Dad’s home.  It was a perfectly pitched curve ball too – the batter at the plate said, “Yep.  I’ll take a swing at it” and the team manager supported the decision.  Since then, there have been a few singles, doubles and triples; even a homerun or two.  Every once in a while, they strike out, but in my humble opinion, it’s a rare occasion. My family has been on this journey with C.J.’s parents the entire time and so maybe that helps when it comes to acceptance.  We knew C.J. B.B. (Before Barbie) and we loved him.  And, we know C.J. A.B. (After Barbie) and we love him.  One thing I know about the A.B. C.J. is that his personality is far more outgoing.  He wants to be involved in things, has opinions about things and loves imaginative play.  The B.B. C.J. was sweet, but his personality was not as bold and sociable as the A.B. C.J. When C.J.’s parents embraced him for everything he loved and wanted to play with, C.J. began to sparkle.  There’s no other way to put it.  He sparkled. All parents want (or should want) their child to sparkle and sometimes it takes a little extra time to find the one thing that triggers the glittery moment – but when they do, loving and nurturing parents will move Heaven and Earth to make it happen for their child on a consistent basis.  I cannot imagine a world where C.J. was forced to play with a toy he didn’t like all because people said the toy he did like wasn’t “for boys.” I will admit, it was uncomfortable at first.  I won’t lie.  Not that I was personally uncomfortable with buying dolls or other “girl toys” for C.J.; after all, our (adult) feelings don’t really matter in all this.  The person’s whose feelings matter are the child’s.  But that was just it – I didn’t know how to react to C.J.’s feelings and at that, didn’t know how to react to C.J.’s parents’ feelings about C.J.’s feelings.  Sound familiar??  (If you know anything about this blog, it should!) For about a year, I called and asked, “Is it ok if we buy C.J. this or that for Christmas, his birthday or just because I was picking it up for my daughter?”  The answer was a bit hesitant at first, because they were navigating new waters, but it didn’t take long for the answer to become a resounding “yep.”  Now, there’s no reason to call. C.J. and Grace even coordinate their Halloween costumes. C.J. and Chase and my two daughters have grown up together and everything is very normal for them.  Both my daughters have stood up for C.J. when other girls have said his liking girl’s things is “weird” or that he should only like “boy’s stuff.” Families with gender non-conforming children have to surround themselves with like-minded people – people who are tolerant and patient, understanding and compassionate.  There is no room for hate or ignorance.  I can’t imagine how tough it is on people who do not have a structured support system.  As family and friends, our job is to help with kindness, not criticize with disdain.  This is not an area for you to offer advice unless you’re asked for it.  In my experience, C.J.’s parents questioned all decisions, no matter how insignificant they may have been.  The last thing parents need is someone giving his or her two cents, adding to the confusion. Stay positive and love the child (and family) whether you’re in a public or a private setting.  You can’t say things are okay at home and then turn your back on the family when you are in public.  You shouldn’t be expected to “get it” out of the gates, either.  Some people are naturally going to be more accepting than others, but the best thing you can do is love and support the family as they journey down their path.  Don’t turn your back on them or dismiss their feelings as insignificant or trivial.  The child may or may not be going through a “phase” and you do not want to be a part of bullying a child. The family will appreciate you being open to their new situation and trust me – no one is more nervous than the parents.  Like C.J.’s Mom has said before, they have lost several undeserving friends throughout this journey.  Friends who wouldn’t accept C.J. or the rest of the family because he didn’t conform to society’s “norms.”  Shame on them.  Too bad for them.  They, and others like them, are missing out on knowing a beautiful family who has much to offer others.  Give the family time to figure things out.  C.J.’s Mom and Dad revise their plan daily as they follow C.J.’s lead.  Allow your family and friends to do the same.  Follow them.  Be there to listen.  Above all else, a favorite saying of mine and C.J.’s Mom is, “Just don’t be an asshole.” What do you think?  How can non-family allies support friends raising a differently-gendered child?  Leave a comment below.    All Posts BFFs Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Grace Halloween Marie Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow What It’s Like Be Friends With Us  C.J. and Chase had two weeks off for winter break.  They were a long two weeks, as they tend to be when the kids are out of school.  Over the break, Chase — who has considered a future behind the camera and is quite impressive at making short films using the iMovie app on his iPad mini — tried to help C.J. make a movie using his dolls as the main characters.  Chase quickly grew bored and frustrated.  I don’t blame him. So, he taught C.J. how to take his own videos using the iPad.  C.J. proceeded to take 81 minutes of footage of himself playing with his dolls.  He might have taken more, but, alas, there was not enough free space on the iPad.  I found the many clips last night and have compiled a few snippets so that you can get a little taste of the real C.J.  Now, you have learned some of his favorite catchphrases that I hear every day, like:  Holy ja-moly! Oh, snap! Cray-cray!  (Everybody and everything are always cray-cray) By the way… You can’t get enough of me! I’m resistible!  (Which actually means “I’m irresistible!”) I need my place to shine! I’m shopping my butt off! I did not sign up for this! I’m on fire! I quit!  You’ve probably also noticed that C.J. likes to make up his own jokes and may be overly concerned about hair and shoes.  But, I mean, can you blame him?    All Posts Barbie Frankie Stein gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Monster High raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow YouTube C.J. At Play  It’s hard to believe that I’ve been blogging for three years now.  Back then, I had a three-almost-four-year-old boy who worried me because he liked everything intended for a she. I started this blog to connect with other families raising slightly effeminate, possibly gay sons and to get advice from LGBTQ teens, adults and their parents about raising the next generation of the community.  The first thing I learned from my readers is that my son’s effeminacy isn’t about his sexuality — it’s about his gender.  If I had never started the blog I might still be trying to figure out that and so many other things. I’ve felt a lot of anxiety during these three years.  Risk has always been a negative four-letter word for me and all of this has felt risky: starting a blog; sharing a part of our family with who knows who; admitting that my son plays with “girl things” and “wears girl clothes” and that, at times, it made me feel uncomfortable; speaking out; writing a book; outing my family; learning to live without being ruled by fear; and beginning to advocate openly. It would have been so much easier to spend the last three years working my day job, running the home, caring for my kids, shopping online, perusing the boredom trifecta of Facebook/Instagram/Pinterest; and learning new skills, like knitting or how to cook rice without a rice cooker.  But, none of that would have helped me grow up and grow as a person as much as this blog, book and raising a child with unique needs have. I wouldn’t change a thing about my life, my path, my family, my friends or the last three years.  It’s been amazing and I’ve been blessed. Four months ago, on the morning of September 3, I got out of bed, put on my new blue dress and tried to use hair and makeup, smoke and mirrors and compression undergarments to disguise the fact that I hadn’t been sleeping well and had been eating my feelings for weeks.  I was preparing myself to be — the moment the cameras started rolling with me on the couch of The TODAY Show – to be the most hated woman and mother in America.  It was a risk I was willing to take.  Wholeheartedly. I’d been watching for years as very vocal members of the public and media bashed, threatened and harassed moms like me; moms who are open about and unashamed of having a child who is differently-gendered and/or openly homosexual.  And, I was next, I thought.  I mean, I had taken some heat, but nothing compared to that felt by others. Matt and I did our interview on The TODAY Show and no sooner were we off the couch than I received my first hate email resulting from the appearance.  “Here it goes,” I thought to myself.    Then came the emails of support and cries for help.  Before the end of the day, I had more than 300 emails.  And, as it has been since I started my blog, for every email of hate, I received dozens of emails from people who were glad they had found my blog and book. I wasn’t hated, no, more than that, I was feeling the love.  And, by revealing our identities, we had done a lot to quiet two large groups of our haters.  Those who believed for years that my blog and family are works of fiction.  We aren’t and we proved that when people got to see us in the flesh.  Look!  We’re real!  We live and breathe! And, for years I had people ask  “where is this kid’s father?!”  He’s right here, right beside on The TODAY Show couch, at most of my appearances, being quoted in interviews and writing a kickass piece for The Atlantic in which he clarified, “My son skipping and twirling in a dress isn’t a sign that a strong male figure is missing from his life, to me it’s a sign that a strong male figure is fully vested in his life and committed to protecting him and allowing him to grow into the person who he was created to be.” I’ve gotten really good at ignoring negativity.  And, there’s still a lot of it out there. Do I read the comments made in response to what I write?  Comments made on this blog?  Yes, every single one.  Comments made on other websites where my essays are posted.  No.  I can’t.  It’s not healthy for me.  And, I don’t publish the few, random negative comments that people attempt to make on my blog.  I used to feel bad trashing the negative comments on my blog, like I wasn’t being honest or fair or giving everyone a voice or showing both sides of the story.  But, you know what?  It’s my blog.  Everyone has a voice.  I have one here.  If haters want to be heard, they can start their own blog for me to not read. This is the year when I realized that I’ve grown up a ton since the start of all this.  At 36, I finally feel like a full-fledged grown up.  I want to do something with my life when and where I can.  At last, I proudly, comfortably, fell like an adult and, I feel like raising a child like C.J., writing this blog, my book and advocating are the main reasons why. When I first started writing, I would be experiencing something in life and think “a blog post is happening right now.”  That doesn’t happen as often any more.  I have to be thankful for it, because it means that we are so totally comfortable with C.J.’s gender nonconformity that it doesn’t steal the spotlight, it isn’t a focal point, it doesn’t call out to get our attention and make us feel uncomfortable, worried, anxious or hope that others aren’t looking.  It’s just a part of him.  We have come to a place of total acceptance.  If you’ve been reading my blog for long, I’m sure you’ve noticed it. My writing style has changed, I’ve stopped using wit and sass to deal with my uneasy feelings about the many facets of his gender creativeness and I’ve just started being really, really honest about my feelings.  I’ve become more sincere.  Allowing C.J. to be 100 percent C.J., helped me to be 100 percent me. With the publication of my book and coming out, I feel like I’ve aligned and merged the two lives I felt I was living.  There was blog life and real life.  Now there is just one life.  It’s easier that way, isn’t it? What’s next?  This.  This blog.  This life.  This family.  And you, I hope.    All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homosexual LGBTQ Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow The Today Show Reflections: Raising My Rainbow Turns 3!  My 2013 Christmas post is up at Salon.com!  If you celebrate Christmas, I hope that you are having the merriest one ever. If you don’t celebrate Christmas, I hope that you are having a super awesome day.  xoxo, Lori (and the entire family) “For more than half of his life, my son has preferred dolls, toys and clothes that are marketed to girls. It started when he was two and a half and he picked up a Barbie and refused to put her down. He’s gone through all of the toy phases that girls his age usually go through.  Barbie gave way to Disney Princesses gave way to My Little Pony gave way to Monster High. My son is now almost 7 years old and I thought that our pocketbooks were going to luck out and that he was going to skip over the very pricey American Girl doll phase. I really thought we were in the clear. Then American Girl catalogs started arriving in our mailbox a few months ago in preparation for the holidays….” Click here to read the full post.      All Posts American Girl American Girl Doll Christmas gender creative Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Salon Salon.com My Son Is Getting An American Girl Doll For Christmas  C.J. can hardly wait for Christmas.  No.  I mean it.  I’m not sure he can wait.  He’s never been particularly patient.  He’s tried to convince me that if he eats two chocolates out of his advent calendar every morning, two days will pass in one and Christmas will come sooner.  He has also tried to convince me to let him open one present every night like his Hanukah-celebrating classmate gets to. His Christmas wish list has been done for weeks.  He keeps it in various “safe places” – like under his pillow, in his dirty clothes hamper, rolled up and jammed in the shower of his Barbie Dream House and folded up in his jewelry box.  He wouldn’t let me send the hard copy to Santa lest he forget the items on the list; so he instructed me to “email text it to Santa on Instagram.”  Rest assured that I did just that and hashtagged it #americangirldollsareexpensive, #ithoughtwewereluckyenoughtoskiptheamericangirldollphase and #pleasehaveyourelvesmaketheamericangirldollsothatidonthavetobuyit.  Yes, at the top of C.J.’s wish list is the American Girl doll named Julie Albright.  She’s a San Franciscan from 1974 with long, silky blonde hair.  Second and third on C.J.’s list, are gymnastic equipment and a bed for Julie. You’ll see on the list that C.J. has also been coveting the Barbie FAO Schwarz Toy Soldier Doll offered exclusively by Toys R Us – which says that the doll is “the perfect gift for any girl!”  I think she’s fabulous and would love to wear her complete look from head to toe.  She may already be wrapped and under our tree, allegedly. C.J. wants every Monster High doll.  I asked him why he didn’t put them on his list and he said because Santa and everybody in the world already know that he wants them. He put a Barbie Dream House on his list even though he already has one.  When I asked him about it, he explained that he wants to make New York City in his bedroom and have lots of buildings, skyscrapers and apartments for “his girls” (his girls = every 11 inch doll that he owns). At the bottom of the list, you’ll notice he wants a WWE wrestling ring set.  That one really surprised me.  When asked about it, I learned that C.J. likes the figurine that it comes with (you should zoom in to take a closer look) and he thinks that ring will go well with his Monster High dolls. Researching and writing the wish list was a labor intensive task for C.J.’s personal life.  For his academic life, he spent quality time decorating a giant construction paper gingerbread person.  Here it is:  It is half girl and half boy.  I’ve been told that the boy parts are the pants, sunglasses and lips.  The girl parts are the peplum (I hate peplums and C.J. loves them.  When it comes to this matter, we’ve learned to agree to disagree), the hair and the jeweled barrette.  The shirt is covered in candy and candy is for everybody and, so, the shirt is for boys and girls. This Friday is the last day of school before C.J.’s two-week winter break.  There’s going to be a party and book exchange.  Here’s the fine print:  …because books aren’t for everybody, there are “books for boys” and “books for girls.”  When I read the note to C.J. he said, “so, I’m going to get a book that I don’t want?  A boys book?”  For his contribution to the book exchange, he selected Yakov and the Seven Thieves because he thinks that it looks like boys will like it and, more importantly, because it was written by Madonna.  He had me sign the gift tag “To a boy or a girl, Love C.J.”    All Posts American Girl Doll Barbie Christmas gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Gingerbread Julie Albright Monster High Orange County parenting WWE A Very C.J. Christmas 2013  C.J. and I have been going to a lot of football games lately. Us! At football games! I know, right?! We go to support our favorite player, Chase, who is now a football-playing high schooler*. There we sit in the stands – C.J. sandwiched between Matt and I. Matt is good at watching football. C.J. and I are not. Matt yell-cheers things like “Come on D!” and “Look for the hole!” while I laugh at the sexual undertones. Then, he tells me to grow up. I don’t know what to yell-cheer. So mostly I don’t. But every once in a while the urge comes over me. Like, when one of our players gets the ball and starts running for a touchdown. “RUN!” I yell-cheered when it happened at the last game. “RUN! RUN! The player must have heard me yell-cheering because, sure as shit, he kept running. I saw a player from the other team getting dangerously close to him. “DON’T GET HURT!” I yell-cheered even louder and with an extreme sense of urgency. Matt whipped his head in my direction. “Did you really just yell that?” he asked. “Yeah. I didn’t want him to get hurt.” Matt said that’s not a good thing to yell-cheer during a football game. So I had to scratch that off my list of possible yell-cheers. Our player didn’t get hurt. Instead, he got a touchdown and the stands went wild (as much as they do at freshman football games). “Did we get a homerun?!” C.J. asked. Matt put his head in his hands. C.J. will never remember that football has touchdowns and baseball has homeruns. C.J. fills some of his football spectating time reading People magazine because it arrives in the mail on Thursdays and Chase’s games are on Thursdays – it’s like it’s meant to be. Last year, C.J.’s teacher told him that he needs to read more nonfiction. People magazine is his preferred nonfiction reading material. I make him watch the game whenever Chase is playing. “Chase is going in,” I say and nudge him. “What number is he?” he asks. “Number 59,” I say. (Three minutes later.) “Chase is going in,” I say and nudge him. “What number is he?” he asks. “Number 59,” I say. That goes on all game long. Matt scoots a little further away from us. We’ve been to about five games so far and I always manage to yell something that I guess I’m not supposed to yell. Most recently it was “RUN!!!” followed by “BE CAREFUL WITH HIS KNEES!! THEY DON’T BEND THAT WAY!!!” Then, a dad yell-cheered “IF THE QUARTERBACK CANT THROW THE BALL PUT HIM IN A CHEERLEADER UNIFORM AND LET HIM CHEER ON THE SIDELINES WITH THE GIRLS!!!” C.J. and I looked at Matt wide-eyed and horrified. “Oh, and he’s allowed to yell that?!” I asked. I try not to sit by that dad now. The first few games, C.J. would watch the cheerleaders flip and do acrobatics while saying under his breath “I can do that” and the ever-humble “I can do that better.” In true C.J.-style, he’s made friends with a handful of the cheerleaders and is now convinced they are cheering specifically for his enjoyment. They call out for him by name when he arrives at the games (with the latest People Magazine and an iced tea in hand). He sits and smiles and waves at them as they do cheers and wiggles his body in a way that tells me he knows the cheer routines and is holding back from doing them along with the cheer team. I don’t think he can hold back for much longer. When Chase first started playing football during summer break a co-worker asked me what position he plays and my response was “well…he’s not the runner or the thrower.” I realized that I needed to learn more about Chase’s new sport. Now, I know he plays defensive tackle and offensive tackle. C.J.’s hobbies and passions are easy for me know about and be supportive of because they are typically things I was or am currently drawn to. I have to try a little harder with Chase. I like trying. Chase is a source of constant wonder for me. I’ve never witnessed a cisgender straight boy grow into a man. He likes things that I know nothing about, which means I get to learn along with him or have him teach me. All while mothering him, guiding him and worrying about him every freaking minute of every damn day. “Did you see that play?!” Matt asks. “No, I told you, when Chase is playing I have to laser focus in on his head to watch for traumatic brain injuries,” I say. Chase is still my little preemie baby, even though he’s taller than me and my head rests on his shoulder when he hugs me. “I like watching you play,” I tell him. “Thanks, Ma. I like having you there,” he says. If only he knew the embarrassing things I yell-cheer in the stands. *Sit down in advance if you are going to tell me how awful high school football is. It is one of the activities Chase wants to participate in and we support him in his passions the way we support C.J.    All Posts Chase Football Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes High School LGBTQ Orange County parenting Things Not To Yell At A Football Game  Are you done with your holiday shopping yet?  I handmade elaborate gifts based on inspirations from Pinterest for everyone on our list.  I lavishly wrapped them and have had them nestled under the tree since December 1. I’m kidding.  The only reason why I’m even halfway done with my shopping is because I can do it in my jammies from the comfort of my couch and laptop.  How did people do it before online shopping? Here are some of my suggestions for gifts and giving, in case you have half your recipients to shop for, too. Donate to GLAAD: My friend Jennifer Finney Boylan serves as GLAAD’s national co-chair (she’s the first transgender person to do so, FYI).  GLAAD is a nonprofit organization that fights for LGBT equality through media advocacy. Like Jennifer and me, GLAAD believes that the most powerful way to improve the lives of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender adults and children is through the power of stories.  And, it’s by amplifying the stories of families like mine on film, in print and online, that GLAAD helps to change the world. Through the rest of 2013, the Gill Foundation is matching all donations made to GLAAD.   You can donate in honor of or tribute to someone and that could be a great holiday gift.  GLAAD and my family are welcoming donations in tribute of “Lori Duron and Family.”  To get giving click here:  www.glaad.org/donate.  On that page you’ll be asked to fill out the usual info; there’s also a button marked “Make a Tribute Gift” and if you click there, you’ll see the place to write down the name of the person you are making the donation in tribute of.  You can even set it up for them to receive an email letting them know that you have made a donation in their name. * * * Buy My Book: Look at the fabulous books that my friends, readers and supporters have created for you to give as gifts to the people you love! pleasure. Raising My Rainbow by ME! She’s Not There by Jennifer Finney Boyle Stuck In The Middle With You by Jennifer Finney Boyle Born Gay, Born This Way The Persecution of Mildred Dunlap by Paulette Mahurin Gender Born, Gender Made by Diane Ehrensaft My Princess Boy by Cheryl Kilodavis The Boy Who Cried Fabulous by Leslea Newman Roland Humphrey Is Wearing A What? by Eileen Kiernan-Johnson * * * Camp Aranu’tiq sent me an email this week.  Over the summer, they served a record number of campers and in 2014 they expect to serve more than 300 campers and families through their summer camps, brand new leadership camps for ages 16-18 and a new weekend family camp! You could consider a holiday gift to help their campers have the best possible experience. $600 covers tuition cost for one camper $350 covers camp’s costs for having one camp volunteer $100 is a big help toward food and supplies camp programs You can donate here: camparanutiq.org/donate. * * * In non-holiday related news:  If you live in the UK, there is a network and production company putting together a film about parenting a gender nonconforming son. They are looking for gender nonconforming boys and families who are interested in learning more about the film and possibly participating in it. They assure me that their approach is supportive, not judgmental.  They are a well-established, award-winning science and factual independent TV production company with worldwide experience supplying to the main channels in the UK. If you are interested in learning more, email me at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com. * * * And, finally, if you’ve made it this far in this loooooong post, read this amazing essay that was inspired by one of my recent blog posts. A Thousand Heartbreaks by Jennifer Savage on Mamalode      All Posts books Camp Aranu'tiq Christmas Gender GLAAD Jennifer Finney Boylan LGBTQ Mamalode Friday Fodder: Gifting and Giving Edition  My son has a new hero.  His name is Chad Alan. (He’s not the late-80s teen heart throb Chad Allen who I had a massive crush on once upon a Our House with Brenda Walsh and the Oatmeal Man) C.J.’s Chad Alan is a designer, artist, YouTuber and the founder of a movement called B.O.L.D. – which stands for Boys Openly Liking Dolls.  Through B.O.L.D. and his YouTube channel, Chad encourages gender nonconforming kids to be bold, be themselves, stand up for what they believe in and bravely like what they want to like. C.J. found Chad while we were searching YouTube for Monster High content (after he got tired of watching cake decorating videos, which I found made me the dangerous combination of bored and hungry).  He hasn’t left Chad’s channel in more than two weeks. Chad makes amazing beds and things for the Monster High Ghouls and other dolls.  His videos and tutorials also feature pop music. – which C.J. sometimes dances around to in his room paying no attention to the video’s content.  Chad and C.J. may be kindred spirits; Chad just doesn’t know it yet.  When recently asked what he wants to be when he grows up, C.J. replied “Chad Alan.” Well, one day last week while I was at work, C.J. and his dad followed Chad’s tutorial for making a stone bed for Rochelle Goyle.  When I got home from work, I was reminded – yet again – that Matt is an amazing father and husband.  How many men would spend hours making a bed for their son’s doll?  I mean, it even required a trip to the craft and fabric store. With the fabric that Matt and C.J. purchased (based on Chad’s tutorial), I spent that evening and the following day sewing with C.J.  We made the blanket and four pillows.  C.J.’s favorite part of sewing is pushing the foot pedal.  He especially likes it when I tell him to go slow and he pushes the pedal hard to make it go fast and then he says, “whoops, my foot slipped” with an impish grin.  C.J. has been having a rough few weeks at school because he is different and because he likes “girl things.”  Chad Alan and his YouTube channel make C.J. feel like he fits in.  Chad makes it cool to be B.O.L.D.  And, that makes Chad pretty cool in my son’s eyes and mine.  Matt thinks he’s pretty cool too, but wishes that he didn’t post a new bed tutorial almost daily.  How are we supposed to keep up with that?    All Posts B.O.L.D. Chad Alan gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Mattel Monster High Rochelle Goyle YouTube My Son Has A New Hero  I’ve missed you. I hope that you had a rad Thanksgiving and Black Friday. To be honest, our school bathroom issue has been weighing heavy on my heart and mind.  C.J. and Chase both had the week off from school.  I was super thankful for that.  We needed a break. I hope you know that I’m also thankful for you.  I love this little online community that we have here.  More very soon, Lori * * * “For some people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender holidays mean celebration, joy, family and togetherness. But for others it can mean a time of stress, difficulty and even sadness or depression…especially if one feels that they aren’t able to come out or are not out to everyone in the family. Sitting through a family meal can be challenging enough, but what happens if you are not yet in a position to be true to your authentic self as you make your way through the meal?” Here are some suggestions from PFLAG — both for people who are LGBT and  allies – for getting through the end-of-year family celebrations unscathed! Click here to learn more about navigating family at holiday time… * * * This Friday I’ll be speaking at California State University, Fullerton’s LGBT Symposium at 11:30 a.m.. “The purpose of the Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity symposium is to bring together a series of expert panelists and speakers to address issues of inequities within the LGBT community and share their expertise with the local and extended community. We invite all student affairs professionals, educators, graduate students, faculty, administrators, and community members to attend this educational symposium. The symposium titled “Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity: On Your Campus and in Your Classroom,” will be held on December 6, 2013 to address the educational concerns of the LGBTQ community.” Click here to learn more about the event.        All Posts CSUF Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBT LGBTQ Orange County PFLAG Thanksgiving A Belated Happy Thanksgiving  My son is six and a half years old.  He’s been potty trained with nary an accident since exactly his third birthday. Last week, in his first grade classroom, he peed his pants.  He sat in his urine until the dismissal bell rang.  His pants were soaked and cold when he got out of school.  He was uncomfortable and he smelled.  He didn’t want anybody to know.  It was his secret. He started crying in the car. “I’m so ashamed of myself,” he said over and over again.  Tears rolled down his face, even though he willed them not to.  He couldn’t hold them back. Come to find out, my son — with his long auburn hair, pink and purple fitted clothes, feminine backpack and wrist full of rainbow-colored loom bracelets – is terrified to use the boys’ bathroom at school. On his first visit to the boys’ bathroom, he headed straight for the safety of the stall.  Boys started peeking through the cracks in the stall to see if he was going pee or poop.  Pooping at school is an embarrassment.  He avoided the bathroom for as long as he could.  The next time he had to go, he, again, walked straight to the stall.  He locked the door behind him.  He lifted the toilet seat lid and unzipped his pants.  He could hear them talking.  He could hear them looking.  He turned around.  Boys were peeking through cracks again.  This time they were trying to see his genitals.  They wanted to know if my son has a penis or a vagina. My son refuses to go into the boys’ bathroom again.  He has stopped drinking his juice boxes at lunch.  He refuses to drink anything at breakfast.  He’ll do anything to not have to use the boys’ bathroom at school.  He’ll do anything to avoid having strangers look at his private parts while taking bets as to what they’ll see when they get to see something. I’m sure you can understand why my son is not comfortable using the boys’ restroom at school.  He wouldn’t be comfortable using the girls’ restroom either.  Because he identifies as male, the girls’ bathroom doesn’t feel like the place for him. He wants to use the boys’ bathroom, it’s just that he wants to feel safe once he crosses the threshold into a domain that is loud, messy and run by the boys who dominate the playground.  It’s a world where adults are not allowed and one where being different or weak makes you a target. We have a “female campus,” which means that our principal and vice principal are female.  I’m told that it’s against the law for them to enter the boys’ restroom.  It’s the only place on campus where the kids have free reign.  They know that adults can’t enter.  It’s like Lord of the Flies in there.  An island of urine, screams, voyeurism and soaking wet paper towels thrown onto the ceiling and hanging down like dirty icicles.  It’s aggressive; my son is not. My son has been given the option to use the nurse’s bathroom in the school’s front office.  To a first grader at one of the largest elementary school campuses in Orange County, the nurse’s office feels like it’s miles away.  When he does use that restroom, the other kids ask him why.  He feels weird no matter where he pees. So, instead, he holds his bladder from 7:40 am. To 2:30 p.m., except for on days like the other day, when he could hold it no longer. After getting emotional and feeling blue about raising a boy who only likes pink, I contacted the school.  I wiped my own tears and set out to fight his battles, clear his path and ensure that my son would be safe and comfortable at school.  I feel like I’m the only mother who has to fight for her son’s rights to toilet in privacy, without others trying to get a good look at what’s between his legs. “Of course you should talk to the school,” my brother said.  “But, you need to teach him to stand up for himself if he doesn’t like what’s happening to him.” I had been operating in crisis mode.  I had been so focused on handling the problem for him, that I was forgetting to teach him how to handle it on his own. We role-played. “Stop looking at my privates.” “You’re being rude.” “If you don’t stop, I’m going to tell.” “How would you like it if someone was watching you go to the bathroom?” “Don’t be gross.” “What you’re doing is not okay.” “STOP IT!” It doesn’t feel like enough.  It’s not enough.  But at least now, my son knows what to say to try to defend and protect himself. I talked to my mom about it.  Weeks ago she left her bible study in tears.  A fellow church-going Christian claimed to have insider information and knew that my son was using the girls’ bathroom at school.  There would be hell to pay when “everybody else” found out about it. My son isn’t using the boys’ bathroom, he’s not using the girls’ bathroom, he’s hardly using a bathroom at all.  I worry every day.  Going to the bathroom should be the easiest part of the school day.  But, for my son it’s not.    All Posts bathrooms bullying first grade Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow the bathroom bill transgender When The Boys’ Room Isn’t Safe For A Boy  Hi Everybody!  I recently received an email from a mother who wants advice from fellow readers of my blog.  Following is her email.  If you have any advice for her, please leave a comment at the end of this post.  Thanks so much for your help!  I’m looking forward to reading your thoughts.    Best, Lori “I haven’t visited your blog in a while but did so today as I was wondering if you’ve been exposed to older rainbow boys who stopped their preferences almost overnight.  My son is 10 years old and at 9 he first got called gay in a negative way and that summer was when he absolutely stopped his girl-traditional preferences. He stopped wanting makeup and then nail polish.  Then he would ask for a blue balloon instead of a pink or purple.   I asked him what his favorite color was and he’d say “Pink, but I want a blue balloon.”  Now, a year later, he told me his favorite color isn’t pink any more.  “What is it now?” I asked.  “Aqua.” He also wanted a Band-Aid recently for a hangnail he had.  In the Band-Aid drawer I found mostly princess Band-Aids and he said he didn’t want one of those.  I found a cheap plain hospital Band-Aid and he put it on.  10 minutes later, he was back, because the cheap plastic Band-Aid was already falling off.  I said, all I have is the princess ones.  He said ok and put one on with no problem.  Everyone I know with other boys (including myself with two older boys) says that their son (and my older two) would rather BLEED OUT AND DIE at age 10 than wear a princess Band-Aid, and in this case, there was no blood, just an annoying hangnail.  This makes me believe that he hasn’t changed; he’s trying to conform. Since your CJ is first experiencing the pressure of society, this problem that I have now may soon be yours, so I really want your help and support.  What to do?  On the one hand, there is always a chance that with the advent of testosterone, which does start entering the picture years before puberty, maybe things are evening out and preferences are subtly changing.  Could be.  We are new at this; we do all know that some princess boys become straight men who might love opera or acting or just a fluid, free creative life.  So we just let our sons BE, as we always have. On the other hand, these changes are also coming at a time where peer acceptance becomes paramount (even as we olders and wisers know it shouldn’t, every kid has to go through it).  Which makes me question how in like a month my son went from preferring girl style toys and wearing manicures daily to … Well, not.  Right after he admitted he’d been teased.  And yes, he’d heard all the stuff your CJ is hearing now: “are you a girl or a boy,” “you can’t have that because it’s for girls,” and all the other BS.  And back then, he would just say “because I want to.” But maybe at 9 it’s harder to resist or put up with than at 6, where there is still a magical sheen over the world.  With all our acceptance, MAYBE THEY ARE STILL CRAWLING INTO THAT OLD CLOSET. If there is any way to get the question out into the public, especially to adult gay men (my son definitely is not transgender according to the psychological questionnaire; he ID’s male), maybe you can do this.  You can use anything I’ve written if it helps you.  I’d love a blog post where you query the world, what can parents do when at some point there are signs the boy is entering a self imposed closet, even in 2013?  What would have helped you, the adult gay male?  How can they be themselves, even at this age? At four and six and eight, having parents and family who accept you is enough.  What if it isn’t enough, at 9 or 10 or 11?  Your son is already “closeted” with his lunch.  Just one year ago, my son was wearing a Gymboree girl’s cardigan because it had cupcakes on it.  Now he’s in a navy hoodie.  I don’t care what he wears; I only care that he is happy within his skin. I just wish that being himself were enough to make my son happy. Thanks so much for reading, A fan from California”    All Posts Advice bullying Gay gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ parenting raising a gay child Reader Question A Mother Wants Your Advice  I’m pinching myself.  Again. Publishers Weekly has named Raising My Rainbow one of their Best Books of 2013 in the lifestyle category! Chosen from the nearly 9,000 reviews, PW’s 101 Best Books of 2013 span all the adult genres — nonfiction; fiction; poetry; religion; mysteries and thrillers; cookbooks and lifestyle; health; parenting; crafts and hobbies; comics and graphic novels; science fiction, fantasy and horror; and romance and erotica. See the full list here. This year’s selection “rewards the famous as well as the undiscovered,” according to PW v-p and reviews editor Louisa Ermelino. She added that PW “avoids popularity contests, aiming instead for a wide-reaching spectrum of books.” Thank you, thank you, thank you to all of you who have purchased my book and shared it with others.  I’m humbled, honored and, frankly, a little giddy. * * * This weekend I was at Palm Springs Pride meeting readers, signing books, giving hugs, taking photos and sweating because I decided to wear jeans in the desert.  It was so nice meeting all of you who stopped by the Author’s Village. This month, I’ll be out and about.  I want to meet you! November 13:  PFLAG Long Beach November 20: PFLAG Los Angeles      All Posts Best Books of 2013 Long Beach Los Angeles Palm Springs Pride PFLAG Publisher's Weekly Raising My Rainbow Raising My Rainbow Named One of the Best Books of 2013!  My Halloween post is up, but not here, at TheAtlantic.com.   “My son C.J. is going to be Alice, of Alice In Wonderland, for Halloween. More specifically, he will be Tim Burton’s Alice because, at nearly seven years old, he’s starting to outgrow his infatuation with the leading ladies of Disney. While Disney represents the sweet innocence and make-believe aspects of early life, my son—even though he’s only in first grade—has found comfort and a sense of camaraderie in the dark, quirky fantasy worlds created by Tim Burton. They are worlds where being different is often celebrated. My son is different. He wants to be celebrated.” Click here to read the full post.  * * * Next up on my appearance schedule is Palm Springs Pride.  It’s this weekend.  Who’s going?  I’ll be in the Author’s Village on Sunday, November 3, at 1 p.m., for a meet and greet and to sign books. It’s my first Palm Springs Pride and only my second pride ever….so stop by and make me feel welcome.  Please.    All Posts Alice in Wonderland gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Halloween LGBTQ Monster High Orange County Palm Springs Pride parenting Raising My Rainbow The Atlantic Tim Burton My Son Chooses to Be Alice (in Wonderland)  The first weeks of school are always a little rough for C.J. (and me).  There are a lot of new things.  New routines.  New classroom.  New teacher.  New classmates. We’ve found that he self-edits more than ever in the first weeks of school.  He tries not to stand out as he gets his bearings.  He doesn’t wear his socks from the “pink section.”  He doesn’t wear his jewelry and accessories.  He doesn’t take his pink lunchbox with hearts on it. And, just like that, October arrives.  That’s when my son can no longer dull his sparkle. Last year it happened on National Coming Out Day.  I shit you not. “I did it,” he said as he was getting in the car after school. “You did what?” I asked.  Not at all sure what the answer might be. “I told my friends that I like girl stuff,” he said. “What did they say?” “They said that they already knew and then they ran to the slide to play.” This year, C.J. was selected to be Star of the Week the week of National Coming Out Day.  When you’re Star of the Week, the whole week is about you.  In kindergarten, C.J. hated being Star of the Week because he didn’t want the focus to be on him; he didn’t want to share himself with the whole class because he was afraid of what some of them might say.  Being Star of the Week is hard when you’re a rainbow. First Grade C.J. was relieved to be Star of the Week.  He wanted to use it as the chance to come out to his classmates as a boy who like girl stuff and boy stuff.  The last three words of his claim aren’t truthful.  C.J. does not like “boy stuff.”  None of it.  I struggle to think of something characteristically “masculine” that he does like.  I would have to offer up that he likes riding his bike (which is Monster High themed) and doing gymnastics (which isn’t typically perceived as the most masculine sport, but it’s the only sport that my son will do).  He also likes laughing at farts and making up rhymes and jokes that include the word “poop.”  Is that behavior considered more “masculine” leaning? But, if it makes him feel better to tell the kids at school that he likes girl stuff and boy stuff, that’s absolutely fine with me. Monday: Star Of The Week Day 1:  C.J. had to bring in an “All About Me” poster.  We spent the weekend getting his poster just right.  He has very high standards. Favorite Animal:  Turtle Favorite Food:  Strawberries Favorite Color:  Rainbow Favorite Place:  Colorado When I grow up, I want to be a:  Artist Favorite thing to do is: Play with my friends If I had one wish, I would wish for:  I wish that people would understand me and not tease me because my style is different.  I wish that colors and toys and clothes could be for everyone – not “just for boys” and “just for girls.”  I like boys stuff and girl stuff.  When he dictated his wish to me, I was a mix of sadness and pride.  I was sad that his biggest wish is to be able to like what he wants to like and be himself without the negative reactions and judgments of others.  And, I was proud that he was brave enough to share all of that with his 28 classmates so that he wouldn’t have to self-edit as much while at school. “What did the kids say about your wish?” I asked after school. “Some kids already knew.  Some kids didn’t say anything.  Some kids laughed at me.  But, those are the kids who laugh at everything,” he replied matter-of-factly.  He was unfazed by the laughers, so I was too. Tuesday: Star Of The Week Day 2:  C.J. had to share one of his most prized possessions with the class.  He was going to share one of his favorite books, Roland Humphrey Is Wearing A What?, which is about a gender nonconforming boy who wears girl clothes to school and overcomes teasing. Instead, he decided to earn some major playground cred and envious admirers by showing off two autographed photos.  One of the cast of Jessie and one of the cast of Sam & Cat.  It worked like magic, just as he knew it would.  He can already read a crowd.  He was the coolest kid in first grade when he whipped out those autographed photos. Wednesday: Star Of The Week Day 3:  He led the class in some math-guessing game. Thursday: Star Of The Week Day 4:  Every student in the class wrote him a letter and drew him a picture. Friday: Star Of The Week Day 5:  He got to bring home the letters and pictures that his classmates made for him.  And, this is what I saw that warmed my heart and spread my smile.  These are just five of 28. That’s C.J. as an artist when he grows up with one of his girl friends. This is C.J. walking under a rainbow with one of his very best girl friends (and protectors). This is C.J. with one of the boys in his class. C.J. is the one in the rainbow shirt, in case you weren’t sure. This is C.J. on an ice cream date with one of his girl friends. This is C.J. holding up a rainbow for one of his girl friends. This girl wrote “I think you’re amazing” in her letter to him.  Since his turn as Star of the Week, C.J. has started to wear his socks from the “pink section” to school.  Now, every day he wears his rainbow BFF necklace that he shares with his friend Twirl.  And, he took his pink lunchbox with the hearts on it school for a week.  Then he broke the zipper.  So, now he takes one in the shape of a sweet owl that is intended for girls, but loved by my son…..the Star of the Week.    All Posts bullying Colorado first grade Frankie Stein gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Kindergarten Mattel Monster High Orange County parenting Star of the Week Star Of The Week  I’m tired. On Wednesday morning, I appeared on Fox’s Good Day L.A., the top local morning show in Southern California.  Here’s my interview.  Please take a moment to admire my shoes, which were C.J.-picked-and-approved.  * * * My Good Day L.A. appearance came on the heels of a five-day-long trip to Atlanta to present at the Salon LGBTQ Conference — the first national LGBTQ social media conference. I had a special travel buddy with me on this trip.  I took C.J. and he got some quality playtime with his BFF Twirl, who is the son of  fellow Salon LGBTQ panelist Kelly who blogs at  It’s a Bold Life. * * * Next up on my appearance schedule is Palm Springs Pride.  Who’s going?  I’ll be in the Author’s Village on Sunday, November 3, at 1 p.m., to talk about my family’s experiences and sign books. It’s my first Palm Springs Pride and only my second pride ever….so stop by and make me feel welcome.  My brother has informed me that many people may not be sober at 1 p.m. on Sunday.  That’s okay, you can stop by and say “hi” even if you are under the influence.  Just promise not to puke or otherwise soil me in any way. * * * A reader sent me the link to an article about “New York-based photographer Leland Bobbé, (who) has put together a fascinating series of portraits that examine the idea of gender fluidity by showing New York City drag queens in half-drag.” C.J. has asked to look the photos every night before bed.  He is completely enthralled.  He looks at each picture as a whole, then takes a piece of paper and covers up the queen side to see the man side first.  Then, he slides the paper to cover the man side and stare at the queen side.  Then, he looks at the photo as a whole again.  He notices all of the detail….and he wants colored contact lenses for Christmas. “With these images my intention is to capture both the male and the alter ego female side of these subjects in one image in order to explore the cross over between males and females and to break down the physical barriers that separate them. This in turn questions the normative ideas about gender and gender fluidity. Through the power of hair and makeup these men are able to completely transform themselves and find their female side while showing their male side simultaneously. These are composed in camera and are not two separate images digitally composed.” — Leland Bobbé * * * This week Mamalode published a BEAUTIFUL piece written by a mother of a gender nonconforming girl.  Read it.  I mean it. “My feral girl steps across gender lines and has become to me her own species. Out on our farm in summer, she runs shirtless in little boy boxer briefs, climbs to the top of our rusty swing set and, to me, she is just Eliza. But when I see her in a room full of other six-year-old girls, I realize, again, she’s different. This is no news flash to her. Eliza cultivates this difference without meaning to…” Read the full piece here:  http://mamalode.com/story/detail/half-half * * *    All Posts Drag Queens Fox Good Day LA Kelly Leland Bobbe Mamalode Palm Springs Pride Salon LGBTQ twirl Friday Fodder: Good Day L.A. Edition    Atlanta…I’m coming for you.  This Wednesday through Sunday, I’ll be in town for Salon LGBTQ, the first national LGBTQ social media conference.   Friday, Oct. 18, at 2:15 p.m.: I’ll be part of a panel titled “Raising (and Writing About) the Next Generation of LGBTQ Kids.”  My co-panelists and fellow fierce mamas are none other than the super astounding Amelia (Huffington Post), Sarah Manley (Nerdy Apple) and Kelly Byrom (It’s a Bold Life). Charis Books will be there selling books and I’ll be signing.  Will I see you there? * * * In my post last week, I wrote about our family attending a high school football game to show Chase tackle football up close and personal because he has been begging to make the switch from flag football to full-contact football. I wrote plenty about C.J.’s reactions to the game – which ended up being the school’s Homecoming Game — but I didn’t write about Chase’s reactions. And, you called me on it.  And, it touched my heart because it reminded me that you care about BOTH of my children equally.  Sometimes I foolishly think that your focus is more on C.J.  Mine isn’t – of course – I love both of my kids with all of my heart no matter what. Any-who, Chase has decided that perhaps tackle football can wait a season or two.  😉  So, flag football it is for at least another six months to one year.  This mom is happy with his decision and doing a touchdown, end-zone-dance in her head because the longer I can keep him out of physical-harm’s way the better.   I’m not sure that I’ll ever be ready for Chase to start tackle football…not unless they let me get suited up and block him as he blocks for the runner guy with the ball (Whatever position that is called.  Receiver?  Running back?  Ball carrier?  Mr. Fastypants Runnerman?).      All Posts Amelia Appearances Atlanta Chase Football Huffington Post It's A Bold Life Kelly Byrom Mr. Fastypants Runnerman Nerdy Apple Salon LGBTQ Sarah Manley Monday Fodder: Atlanta, Chase and Football  Following are highlights from our month on Instagram. Click here for all of the months’ pictures, thoughts and happenings. If you’re on Instagram, follow me. If you already follow me, thanks! “There’s nothing negative about the way C.J. is. He’s not dysphoric, searching for some answer. He’s super happy just being himself. I told Lori we were going to raise C.J. the same way we raised Chase — instilling the same values and virtues — but that we would follow his lead and love him no matter what. I was like, ‘If he loves Barbies, let’s give him Barbies. If he loves wearing dresses, let’s buy him dresses’,” Matt in an interview with MEL Magazine. Click here to read it.   He had a bad day and needed to go for a walk “to gather himself.” I walked with him. Eventually he told me the top three things that were bothering him. 1. Someone ate the last of his Pringles. 2. He felt like he wasn’t very helpful in the escape room we did. 3. He’s sad that some parents don’t love their kids anymore when they come out as LGBTQ. Those are some big problems for a 10 year old. And, that last one, is rough on a person no matter their age. When CJ told me one of the things bothering him (see previous pic/post) was that some parents reject their kids for being LGBTQ, this quote kept looping through my head. It’s exactly how I feel about CJ, Chase and Matt. It’s how every parent should feel about their LGBTQ child. And they should communicate it clearly in words and actions. Everyone should feel that a handful of people — or, at the very least, a parent — would choose them.   Channel your inner CJ today. Say “Yaaaaas Qweeeeen” when your boss asks you to do something. Say “water off a ducks back” and flick your wrist and roll your eyes when someone says something rude to you. Eat ice cream for lunch and pickles for dinner. Create something fantastic. Be in bed with a good book by 9 pm. Live that CJ life.   Another week of sewing camp all stitched up. “My teacher really had her hands full this week! There were so many girls who had never sewed before. This one girl kept saying her sewing machine was broken and I was all ‘Gurl. You’re machine is not broken. Here, let me thread it for you.’ Then I helped every girl thread her machine. I’m basically the teacher’s aide and should get paid $10 for the week.”   Flashbacking to little CJ this Friday. He’s werking and twerking on his first day of preschool. While I love the pose in this pic, I can only focus on his polo shirt’s pink stripe. Why? Because he wanted a pink shirt from the girls section and I wouldn’t buy it. He was four and I was struggling with his gender expression. I was afraid that the start of school would bring the start of bullying. So I forced him to focus on and get excited about the pink stripe on his polo shirt. Now, looking back from where I am today, I get mad at myself and feel bad for CJ when I look at this pic. He was four years old. It was the toughest age for a lot of reasons. The terrible twos are nothing. Nobody talks about the fucking fours. And, when CJ was four, we were at the height of our struggle with his gender identity and gender expression. Schools starting. If your boy wants a pink shirt, get it. Don’t settle for a pink stripe.   You’re looking at proof that I’m a good mom and my kids are reaching age appropriate milestones. CJ (age 10) can now flat iron my hair for me while I look at my phone. I’ve dreamt of this day. I’ve been waiting to write the date in his baby book. Today is the day. August 14, 2017. #neverforget #mommingsohard #momlife   Backseat confessions on the way home from gymnastics practice.   Matt: CJ, this is the church where your mom and I got married. Stand in front of it so I can send her a pic at work.   Me from the Nordstrom shoe dept: Where are you? Matt: We are in the makeup department. A great guy saw CJ looking at the makeup and I told him that CJ is in to makeup and wants to be a makeup artist. He is giving CJ a free makeover. Upon seeing my third grade school picture… CJ: Mom! You were gender nonconforming, too?! Me: No. CJ: Then why are you wearing a tie? Me: Because it made me feel powerful. I wanted to be a successful businesswoman and that was my “power suit.” When I wore that outfit I always got compliments. People said I looked smart and like a boss. Why? Because masculinity in females is seen as a strength. But, femininity in males is seen as a weakness. So, CJ doesn’t get the same kind of praise when he wears a skirt….even though that’s the clothing that makes him feel powerful. # # #    All Posts Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Orange County parenting An Interview with Matt and Our Month in Review: August 2017  C.J.’s Brother Chase loves football.  He’s been playing flag football for the past four seasons and thinks that he’s ready to make the jump to tackle football with pads (and a much higher registration fee and time commitment).  Tackle football makes me nervous, but I’m being told on a weekly basis that it’s uncool for him to play flag football much longer.  Tackle football is where it’s at if you are serious about pigskin and/or your social status. In preparation for this next phase of Chase’s athletic career, we decided that he needs to see tackle football live (not just on TV) so he can fully understand that he will be tackled and expected to tackle someone else.  He’s such a kind, gentle, loving soul and I’m afraid that the first time someone knocks him to the ground in an act of aggression it’s going to shock the shit out of him. Matt found out that our high school alma mater was playing a football game five minutes from our house, so one recent Friday night we loaded in the car, grabbed hamburgers for dinner and headed to the stadium for the game. “I don’t wanna watch football.  Football is soooooo boring,” C.J. complained, slumping his shoulders and walking with dread through the parking lot. “There will be cheerleaders…” I said. “I love cheerleaders!  Do we have to sit on the grass or is there a place for the audience to sit?” C.J. asked. “When you watch sports you’re a fan, not an audience, and you sit in the stands or the bleachers.”  C.J. has a lot to learn to about sports, but isn’t the least bit interested in learning it. We walked into the stadium and C.J. saw the cheerleaders instantly.  They were standing on boxes with their names written on them. C.J.:  “What’s her name?” Me:  “Hannah.” C.J.:  “What’s that one’s name?” Me:  “Hannah.” C.J.:  “What’s the brown-haired girl’s name?” Me:  “Hannah.” C.J.:  “That’s so many Hannahs!  Do you have to be named Hannah to be a cheerleader?  Cause my name’s not Hannah.” I agreed.  There were a lot of Hannahs.  There were a lot of cheerleaders, period.  There were a lot of people.  We had a hard time finding seats.  I looked around.  I leaned over to Matt. “I think it’s Homecoming,” I said.  “Did you plan this as a romantic gesture for your high school sweetheart?”  He hadn’t.  Whatever. C.J. watched the freshman, sophomore, junior varsity, varsity and alumni cheerleaders cheer.  By the middle of the second quarter he was getting bored.  (So was I.) “Ewwww, what is that costume!?” he said while pointing. “That’s the uniform that the band wears.  That girl is in the band,” I replied. “Ewwww, that’s so not good.  That’s sad,” he said. I quieted him down.  But, he was right.  The getups had obviously been selected from the Star Trek-themed pages of the band uniform catalogue. “I wanna go home,” he complained. “We can’t leave yet, there is a halftime show and they are going to crown the Homecoming Queen,” I said. “THERES GOING TO BE A QUEEN!!!!  YOU DIDN’T TELL ME THERE WAS GOING TO BE A QUEEN!!!” he yelled, causing the two rows in front of us to turn and look. “WHERE IS SHE?????” he said stretching his head out and around to look for her. “We don’t know who the queen is yet.  They are going to bring out the princesses and then announce which one was picked to be the queen,” I whispered into his ear. “THERE ARE PRINCESSES TOO!!!!!” he yelled.  Again the rows turned to look at us.  He was nearly shaking with excitement. The Dr. Seuss halftime show started.  Apparently it was Homecoming in Whoville.  There were small skits, dance routines and then the five princesses were loaded into a horse-drawn carriage and were making their way on the track around the football field towards us. “HERE THEY COME.  THEY’RE COMING!!!!”  C.J. was losing his freaking mind. The princesses took to the stage one at a time as their long list of accomplishments was read.  One had, like, a 4.75 G.P.A.  Is that even possible?  I was always stoked to have above a 3.0. Each princess was stationed in front of a gift-wrapped box.  Each box contained a helium balloon and whomever’s balloon had a red paper heart attached to it was the queen.  Simultaneously, the princesses started to slowly lift the lids off of their boxes. C.J. had is hands clasped together and held up to his heart.  He was holding his breath.  There were princesses, gift boxes, balloons and hearts.  C.J. could not have been more in his element. The girl on the far left won.  It was a beauty pageant moment.  She brought her hands to her mouth in shock.  She had a surprised-Taylor-Swift face.  The crown was placed atop her shiny dark hair and a cape was draped on her slender shoulders. “SHE CAN’T WIN!!!!!!  SHE DOESN’T HAVE THE BEST DRESS!!!!  THE GIRL OVER THERE WITH THE PINK GLITTER DRESS SHOULD BE THE QUEEN!!!!!” C.J. was on his feet pointing firmly to the girl who – in his humble opinion – should be the Homecoming Queen.  The two rows in front of us turned to look again.  I was hoping that a smile would hide my embarrassment. I tried to explain to C.J. that the Homecoming Queen is supposed to win based on her achievements, not her dress.  He argued that that was stupid and that it should be based on her dress. “Are you ready to go?” Matt asked me. We started to make our way down the stadium steps. “We’ll see you all in the gym for the 2013 Homecoming Dance!” the football announcer said over the loud speaker. “YAAAAAAYYYYYYYY!!!!! WE GET TO GO TO A DANCE!!!!!! IS IT TONIGHT?  WHAT GYM?  LA FITNESS WHERE YOU WORK OUT, MOMMY?” “No, baby, it’s at the high school gym and it’s only for the teenagers.” “But that man just invited me and I can wear one of my dresses…” “You can’t go until you’re in high school,” I said exhausted by the endless questions. “I already know what dress I’ll wear,” he said. “Of course you do.”    All Posts Football gender creative gender nonconforming High School Homecoming Homecoming Queen Orange County parenting My Son’s Thoughts On The Homecoming Queen  As a birthday present to myself, I took the earlier part of the week off from blogging.  I spent the time fixated on the fact that I’m now closer to 40 than I am to 30.  The first email that I saw the morning of my birthday was a Groupon for Botox.  Well played, Groupon.  Well played. I’m also a little wiped out from my book’s release four weeks ago.  I also get lazy periodically and may need some sort of rehab to get over my addiction to Candy Crush.  So, please excuse my absence. Matt, Chase and C.J. made my birthday special as always.  Matt always buys me a present and takes the boys to Target so that each of them can gift me with something that I’ve always wanted.  Then, the boys made cards for me. This if the front of my card from C.J.:  This is the inside, that’s me opening up my presents.  I have really long legs like a supermodel, according to C.J.:  This is C.J. and Chase falling down the stairs to watch me open my presents because I started opening them without them.  I think he just wanted to draw his hair in motion:  This is the gift that C.J. picked out especially for me.  It may look like only a cute little cupcake tchotchke, but wait there’s more:  Inside is this necklace that I am wearing now with pride:  “Mom, how about you have the necklace and I have the cupcake?  That sounds like a good idea, doesn’t it?” C.J. said persuasively. “Okay,” I agreed. “And, then, when you die I can have the necklace,” he said.  That didn’t help me with my feeling old problem. * * * This Tuesday, October 8, I’ll be at the Corvallis-Benton County Public Library. At 7 p.m., I will be in the Main Meeting Room.  The event is free and open to the public.   Parents of gender nonconforming children are invited to a special visit with me at the library from 6 to 6:30 pm. This session is free but sign up is required; parents can email Robin Fosdick at robin.fosdick@corvallisoregon.gov to register. An extra special thank you to the Friends of the Corvallis-Benton County Public Library and the Hilton Garden Inn for sponsoring this event. * * * Raising My Rainbow: Adventures in Raising a Fabulous, Gender Creative Son is now available in the UK and Ireland in paperback and for your e-reader.  Spread the word.  #raisingmyrainbowworlddomination    All Posts Birthday Corvallis Corvallis-Benton County Public Library gender creative gender nonconforming Ireland Orange County parenting UK Friday Fodder: Birthday Blogger Edition  This Sunday I’ll be at the West Hollywood Book Fair.  Will I see you there?  Sunday, September 29, West Hollywood Book Fair  The book fair runs from 10 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.  At 3:30 p.m., I will be on a panel titled “Telling My Story: LGBT Memoir” and I will be signing books immediately afterwards.   Admission is free, so stop by and say hi!  Here’s more event info:  The 2013 West Hollywood Book Fair is one of Southern California’s largest and most eclectic literary events.  Taking place at West Hollywood Park & West Hollywood Library, it will feature 13 stages, hundreds of acclaimed authors and artists, exhibitors, live performances, culinary demonstrations, children’s theater programming, and workshops for all ages.  The day will end with a very special in-the-park screening of Singin’ in the Rain with Debbie Reynolds. * * *  In their issue that hit newsstands today, People Magazine named Raising My Rainbow a “Good Read!”  It’s fun (and surreal) to see my book in a magazine like People, but more than anything it’s exciting that it introduces the topic of gender creative kids to such a large, mainstream audience.     * * *  Next up for me after this weekend’s West Hollywood Book Fair is…  Tuesday, October 8, Corvallis-Benton County Public Library At 7 p.m., I will be speaking at the Corvallis-Benton County Public Library in the Main Meeting Room.  The event is free and open to the public.   Parents of gender nonconforming children are invited to a special visit with me at the library from 6 to 6:30 pm. This session is free but sign up is required; parents can email Robin Fosdick at robin.fosdick@corvallisoregon.gov to register. An extra special thank you to the Friends of the Corvallis-Benton County Public Library and the Hilton Garden Inn for sponsoring this event.    All Posts Appearances Corvallis-Benton County Public Library Events gender creative gender nonconforming parenting People Magazine West Hollywood Book Fair Friday Fodder: West Hollywood Book Fair Edition  You all are the best.  No.  I mean it.  THE BEST. After I wrote about the trials and tribulations of our first week of school, so many of you reached out to check on us, left comments on my blog and shared your support through social media. Here’s an update. C.J. continues to carry his lunch to school in a brown paper bag instead of his much-desired pink-heart-monkey lunchbox.  He knows that he can take the lunchbox at any time, but he now prefers the bag.  Here’s why: when it’s time for lunch, he has to carry his lunchbox across campus to the tables to eat.  When he’s done eating, he has to carry his lunchbox to his classroom number that is painted on the ground by the playground.  When the end-of-lunch bell rings, he has to go retrieve his lunchbox from his room number and walk to his classroom. If you aren’t familiar with new first graders, this process can be daunting.  He has realized that with a brown lunch bag, he can carry it to the lunch tables, eat his lunch and toss the whole damn thing in the trash and get to the playground without having to remember things like his room number or his belongings. The brown lunch bag is easy.  Is the ease of use the only reason why he is using it instead of the pink-heart-monkey lunchbox?  I’m sure it’s not.  But, we are okay with that for right now. Kids continue to ask him why he is carrying a girl’s backpack and tell him that he can’t use it because it is for girls.  He honestly doesn’t seem hurt by the remarks; it seems more like he’s just annoyed by them at this point.  To give the naysayers something more to talk about, this week he added to his backpack a key chain from Justice that looks like a pink locker.  So, there.  Feast your eyes on that double display of femininity. As for C.J.’s Brother Chase, after I reported the racist remarks that he heard and the homophobic slurs and bullying that he endured, both offending classmates were talked to individually and the teacher told me that the next day she would talk to the entire class about acceptance and equality.  At the end of the second week of school, I asked Chase if his teacher had talked to the class about acceptance, equality, tolerance, racism or the LGBTQ community. “No,” he said and went back to watching iOS 7 load slowly onto his iPad mini. “So, at no time this week did she talk about being nice and accepting everyone or anything like that?” I asked. “Oh, yeah, wait a minute, she did.  Out of nowhere she said what if one day we all went to school and she said that everybody with blue eyes was bad and lesser than and couldn’t talk to anybody else or eat or play with everybody else and weren’t as smart.  Everybody thought that would suck and we all looked for the people with blue eyes.  Then, she said what if the next day we came to school and she said everybody with brown eyes was dumb and bad and couldn’t hang out with everybody else and blue-eyed people were okay again.  It was kind of confusing, but it doesn’t matter because I have hazel eyes, so I was cool no matter what.” I just looked at him.  I’m sure he wasn’t relaying the lesson wonderfully and I was wondering how I expected the teacher to address acceptance and equality with a fifth grade class. “What?” he said looking at me. “And, what did the other kids in class say?” “They said they would just wear sunglasses or keep their eyes shut so that they wouldn’t have to deal with it,” he said looking back down at his iPad. “But that’s like a gay person being in the closet and not being true to themselves.  Or your brother having to conform just to get by,” I said, thinking out loud. Chase shrugged his shoulders and walked into the other room.  The conversation was over, I guess. C.J.’s First Grade Self-Portrait. Heavy on the eyeliner and lipstick apparently. One thing I did do, at the suggestion of one of you, was ask the teacher if the parents of the two kids who had specifically been the problem had been notified of their child’s behavior.  I wasn’t sure if I was allowed to ask this, but I let her know that if my child ever needed one-on-one discipline or was using racist, homophobic or hate speech that I would want to know. The answer was yes.  The parents had been made aware.   I would be mortified, but what if they felt that their child was justified to speak freely about their opinions? I got up and left the room too, I needed the conversation in my head to end. The final days of last week and the first days of this week have been largely uneventful.  Which is just the way I like my days to be most of the time.    All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Justice Kindergarten LGBTQ Orange County parenting An Update About School  On Thursday, the television show The Doctors aired an amazing segment on our family, blog and book.  It was more in-depth and informative than any interview we’ve done before and they handled the topic with such empathy, support and compassion.   Following is our 30-minute segment broken up into five clips. Our Segment’s Synopsis: Parenting a Gender-Creative Child  Supporting Gender Nonconformity: Parents Lori and Matt Duron open up about their decision to support their gender-creative child.  Gender Nonconformity Vs. Transgender: Gender therapist and licensed clinical social worker Darlene Tando explains the difference between transgender and gender-nonconforming individuals.  Struggles of Raising a Gender-Creative Child: Parents Matt and Lori Duron reveal the most painful parenting struggles of raising their gender-creative child.  Parents Discuss Bullying of Gender-Creative Child: Parents Matt and Lori Duron discuss some of the hate mail they have received for supporting their gender-nonconforming child. * * * So, that is how you can see us online.   Here’s how you can see me in person (sorry, C.J.’s Dad and the boys have to stay home). Sunday, September 29, West Hollywood Book Fair  At 3:30 p.m., I will be on a panel titled “Telling My Story: LGBT Memoir” and I will  be signing books afterwards.   The 12th Annual West Hollywood Book Fair will feature literature, art, music, performance and community in an eclectic presentation.  Admission is free, so stop by and say hi! Tuesday, October 8, Corvallis-Benton County Public Library At 7 p.m., I will be speaking at the Corvallis-Benton County Public Library in the Main Meeting Room.  The event is free and open to the public.   Parents of gender nonconforming children are invited to a special visit with me at the library from 6 to 6:30 pm. This session is free but sign up is required; parents can email Robin Fosdick at robin.fosdick@corvallisoregon.gov to register. An extra special thank you to the Friends of the Corvallis-Benton County Public Library and the Hilton Garden Inn for sponsoring this event.    All Posts Dr. Sears Dr. Stork gender creative gender nonconforming raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow The Doctors See Us Online and In Person  School started last Tuesday.  My kids had been out of school for 82 days — not that I was counting – and they were antsy to go back.  With Chase starting fifth grade and C.J. starting first grade, I have reached the momentous mommy milestone of having all of my children in full-day school. I got them both to where they needed to be on the morning of September 10 and rushed back home to park myself on the couch under a blanket to catch up on reality TV, while obsessively and repetitively checking email and Facebook on my laptop and Instagram and Pinterest on my phone.  Because that, my friends, is how I relax. As I got myself situated on the sofa the silence of the house caught my attention. It was quiet.  Really quiet.  The sounds of summer were gone.  I got halfway through one episode of Teen Mom 3 and I had a bad feeling.  What if, at that very moment, someone was trying to dull C.J.’s sparkle?  What if he was being teased for his rainbow-leopard-print backpack?  What if he was being teased for his pink, heart-covered lunchbox?  What if he was being teased for his hair that is growing out?  What if?  What if?  What if?  I couldn’t concentrate on mindless TV.  Ugh! I thought of that morning.  I followed behind Chase as he walked onto campus.  He was high-fiving people through the hallways and reinforcing why we call him “The Mayor.”  He knows everybody and is full of a confidence that is more kind and innocent than cocky.  He’s just a great, happy, friendly person. Thirty minutes later we were at C.J.’s school and he was holding onto my hand for dear life.  The transition from kindergarten to first grade is a big deal.  Gone are the half-day of instruction, private playground, protective atmosphere and kids and parents who know C.J. is, well, C.J.   This year he has to stand in line on the playground with 1,150 other first through sixth graders waiting for the bell to ring.  He was overwhelmed.  Understandably so. When I picked C.J. up from school, his teacher had the class in a single file line and was dismissing one student at a time.  I could see C.J. at the back of the line.  He looked up at me and then immediately looked down.  He was fighting back tears.  I started to do the same. When he got to me, I asked him how his day was. “Fine,” he said as we walked.  He was lying.  We got into the car and the tears spilled down his cheeks. “What’s wrong, baby?” I asked. “I spent all day afraid that the big kids were going to tease me cause they don’t know that I’m gender nonconforming yet.  And, it was the longest day ever.  I’m tired.  First grade is way too long,” he explained. “Who did you sit with at lunch?” “I sat at the boys’ table and it was so boring.”  There are not boys’ tables and girls’ tables at lunch, that’s just naturally how the kids divide. “How come you didn’t sit with your girl friends?” I asked.  C.J. only has girl friends. “Because I didn’t want the bigger boys to tease me.” “Did the boys say anything about your lunchbox?” I asked.  He’d been not so patiently waiting to use it for weeks. “I didn’t carry it to the lunch tables.  I took all of my food out and carried it in my hands to the tables so that nobody would see my lunchbox.” My heart broke as I envisioned him trying to carry a sandwich, juice box, chips, granola bar and sliced fruit to the lunch tables on the other side of campus. We role-played that night during bath time. “What if someone said ‘why do you have a girls lunchbox?’” I asked. “I’d say because that’s my style and everyone can have their own style,” he replied not missing a beat and sounding like he really believed his own words. “See!  You’re great!  That’s what you would say!” I encouraged him. “It’s harder when it’s really happening,” he said looking down.  I couldn’t argue with that. I offered to go get him a new lunchbox.  He didn’t want to.  He likes his pink lunchbox.  But, the next day he took his lunch in a brown paper bag.  And, he has everyday since. That was Tuesday.  Day One. On Wednesday, Chase came home and said that he needed to talk to me privately. “A kid in my class made a racist remark at the lunch tables and I told him that it wasn’t very nice, especially since there was a person of color at the table.  Then the same kid used the word ‘gay’ in the bad way and I told him not to do that because it’s rude and because my uncle is gay and my brother is gender nonconforming.  He said that being gay is sick and bad and wrong.  He said that I’m not a good Christian if I like gay people.  It’s all really been bothering me,” Chase said. He stared at me.  I stared back at him, trying to keep my immediate reactions from flying out of my mouth. “Wow.  Okay.  So that all happened,” I said as he continued to stare at me.  I swear, I cannot get away from gender and sexuality issues.  Even when I’m just trying to hide in my house and stare at three screens simultaneously, my kids are out in the world experiencing things that aren’t okay. “Well, baby, above all else, God said to love others and not judge, so you should tell that kid to focus on that.  Besides, he made a big assumption that everybody is the same religion.  Then, maybe you two should agree to disagree.  Not all kids your age have the same opinions and worldviews as you do.  A lot of them don’t know about the struggle for LGBTQ equality yet.  I bet that kid has never even met a gay person.  You’re a little more worldly in that regard.”  I was making it all up as I went along. On Thursday, pretty much the exact same conversation took place at lunchtime with two other kids joining in to tell Chase that being gay is sick, bad, wrong and gross and against God, Jesus and the Bible.   They said that we are a bad family. I emailed the teacher and principal. Then, on Friday, C.J. got was upset that a girl from his class told him that his backpack is for girls. “I told her that it wasn’t, that backpacks are for everybody and that is just my style.” He was proud of himself.  He was smiling. “What did she say?” “She said I was a liar and that it’s only for girls and I can’t carry it.” “Backpacks are for anyone who has a back and needs a pack,” I said, shaking my head in pure exhaustion. The first four days of school.  My youngest is afraid of getting teased at lunch, while my oldest is actually getting teased at lunch.  I’ve already had to be in contact with two principals, two teachers and one vice principal.  We’ve already been called a bad family.  And, I’m still not caught up on my reality television shows.  This should be an interesting school year.    All Posts bullying Fifth Grade First Day of School first grade Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Orange County parenting Sexuality teasing It’s One Thing After Another, I Swear  This has been a very crazy week, with C.J. starting first grade and his brother Chase starting fifth grade.  I’m in the middle of writing a post about their first week of school.  Until I finish that, enjoy this: My Advice To Parents Of Girly Boys, Parents.com I welcome a lot of emails into my inbox every day and many of them are from parents or caregivers seeking advice on raising a gender creative child.  This column contains my top seven tips. Lori Duron On Finding Vulnerability And Sincerity Through Writing, Biographile.com If you’ve followed my blog over the last two and a half years, I’m sure you’ve noticed a change in my writing voice.  I had been using wit and sass most of my life to protect myself and appear less vulnerable than I really was. I mistakenly thought that people wouldn’t appreciate the sincere and raw version of me. Most importantly, I didn’t think that I would like that version of myself. I was wrong on both accounts.  Learn how a very special book editor helped me find vulnerability and sincerity through writing. Raising My Rainbow Highlights The Challenges Of Raising A Gender Creative Child, Southern California Public Radio In this 10-minute radio interview, I discuss how public reactions to C.J. make me feel, how bullying led to Chase talking about suicide and C.J.’s future. Thank you to all of you who have purchased my book and helped me to inspire a conversation that raises awareness of, understanding about and acceptance for gender creative kids.  Let’s keep the conversation going – kids like C.J. deserve it. Xoxo, C.J.’s Mom (a.k.a Lori Duron) Order the Raising My Rainbow book!          All Posts parenting Gender Back to School LGBTQ Parents.com Biographile.com Parents Biographile SCPR Southern California Public Radio LGBT My Advice. My Vulnerability. My Voice.  If you have EVER doubted the awesomeness of C.J.’s Dad, you must read this essay that he wrote for The Atlantic.   How often do you hear what it’s like to raise a gender nonconforming son from a dad’s perspective? * * * And, I wrote an essay for the Huffington Post about my family’s coming out stories.  Here it is for your enjoyment. * * * Tomorrow (Saturday) NBC’s WEEKEND TODAY will feature a segment about our family and the book.  Set your DVR! * * * Fox 5 in Washington D.C. welcomed me into their studio yesterday. Here’s a clip of the interview that aired live on their morning show. * * * Yesterday afternoon, I was part of an hour-long talk on The Diane Rehm Show (NPR) about gender nonconforming children.  Fellow guests were Andrew Solomon, Dr. Edgardo Menvielle and Allyson Roberts.  To listen to the discussion click here and look for the “Listen” option in the upper left-hand corner. * * *  Raising My Rainbow was the September read for the online Left to Write book club — where bloggers/members create a virtual discussion about a book and how it relates to their lives and in turn, everyone’s lives.  Click here to read how nearly two dozen bloggers reacted to my book.    All Posts Fox 5 Huffington Post Left to Write NPR The Atlantic The Diane Rehm Show Weekend Today My Son Wears Dresses; Get Over It  Thank you for your support and for reading my book and sharing it with others.   No.  Seriously.  I mean it.  Thank you. C.J.’s Dad and I were on The TODAY Show yesterday.  It was definitely a once in a lifetime experience.  (C.J. and his Brother were most impressed that we were in the same vicinity as Ariana Grande, who performed on the show that day.) Here’s a link to an article on the TODAY website and our clip from the show. Now, I know I’ve been slacking off on writing new posts during the last few weeks.  If you are hungry for my words, check out one (or all!) of these pieces. Boys Who Wear Pink Aren’t Just Internet Sensations I wrote this piece for Time about how stories about boys playing with gender come out of nowhere and cause massive public reactions. And then, as quickly as they arrived, they disappear. It’s disappointing that no one event nor all of them as a whole has had the power to inspire and sustain a lasting conversation that raises awareness, understanding and acceptance of little boys who don’t conform to traditional gender norms. ‘Are the kids going to tease me today?’: Sending my rainbow child back to school In this piece for CNN, I write about how there is a bit of dread that grows inside me with the start of every school year. I’m one of those moms who fight back tears the first few weeks of school — not because the separation from my children for six hours a day five days a week is too much to handle, but because I fear for the safety and acceptance of my youngest son, C.J., who is gender nonconforming. Understanding Gender Nonconforming Children  I’m traveling from New York to Washington to be on The Diane Rehm Show (NPR).  It will be a live one-hour talk about gender nonconforming children.  Thursday, Sept. 5  at 11:06 a.m. EDT.  I’ll be in great company.  Fellow guests include:  Andrew Solomon writer and lecturer on psychology, politics and the arts; author of “Far From the Tree: Parents, Children and the Search for Identity.” Dr. Edgardo Menvielle psychiatrist and director of gender nonconforming youth program at Children’s National Medical Center in Washington, D.C.  Also in the News This Family Is The Face Of Awesome Parenting, Jezebel Mom Of ‘Rainbow’ Son Comes Out In New Book, Yahoo/AP Order the Raising My Rainbow book!          All Posts AP CNN Diane Rehm Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Jezebel LGBTQ parenting The Today Show Time Today Yahoo! I’m Officially A Published Author!  Tomorrow, Raising My Rainbow: Adventures in Raising a Fabulous, Gender Creative Son will be released! I’ll start the day by being interviewed on The TODAY Show.  Look for C.J.’s Dad and me to make our television debuts at about 8:40 a.m. * * *  A Conversation with Lori Duron and Jennifer Finney Boylan Click here to read a piece from Psychology Today in which Jennifer Finney Boylan (She’s Not There and Stuck in the Middle With You: A Memoir of Parenting in Three Genders) and I discuss our memoirs, gender, parenting and family. * * *  While Writing My Book, I Stopped Reading  While writing Raising My Rainbow I stopped reading books.  I couldn’t take the chance of sounding like somebody else. Even though I wasn’t reading any of their works at the time, there were five authors who kept popping into my head as I wrote, keeping me company and providing inspiration and strength.  Click here to learn who the five authors were. Pre-order the Raising My Rainbow book!          All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Jennifer Finney Boylan Psychology Today Raising My Rainbow The Today Show Tomorrow Is The Big Day!  I hear from a lot of adults raising gender expansive four and five year olds. The adults are typically stressed, confused, lonely and scared. I get it. I’ve been there. Ages four and five were the toughest for us in terms of parenting a gender expansive child. I tell families that it gets better once the child can communicate his/her thoughts and feelings. Like, now, with C.J. being 10 years old and getting ready to start fifth grade, if I have a question about him, I can ask him and he can answer. I asked C.J. what he remembers thinking and feeling when he was four and five years old and I wrote it all down. I’m hoping that sharing C.J.’s memories below might help families currently wondering and/or struggling. xoxo, Lori (By: C.J., age 10, August 2017) When I was two years old I kind of liked cars and knights and stuff because that’s all the toys we had. When I got closer to three years old, I started to like pink, purple and princesses. By the time I was four years old, I liked everything girl stuff. I really liked the way girls’ hair and dresses moved. In preschool and kindergarten, I got the hint that I wasn’t like other boys my age. They would wear superhero stuff and I would wear clothes that were more feminine. I even wore Little Mermaid pajamas on pajama day and a Monster High costume on Halloween. At that time I don’t think I really cared what other kids thought about me. When you’re in preschool and kindergarten and you’re different, the other kids don’t really care as much. My mom says I used to ask every morning if I was going to get bullied at school, but I don’t remember that. My mom says it’s good to forget stuff sometimes. Back when I was four and five years old, I used to tell my parents that I wanted to be a girl. I never said I was a girl. I just said I wanted to be a girl. Because then I could like all of the stuff and hobbies and clothes that I liked and nobody would care or give me a hard time about it. I used to draw myself as a girl. This summer, I went through my drawings from kindergarten and in all of them I had long ponytails and dresses on. It surprised me when I saw that. When I saw those drawings, it made me realize how fast people can forget things they did. I’m going into fifth grade now and that was just back in kindergarten. I guess I do remember wanting to be a girl if I think about it really hard, but I don’t want to be a girl anymore. I want to be me. Just me. I’m a gender creative boy. I’m a boy who likes girl stuff. I don’t even like calling it girl stuff and boy stuff. There shouldn’t be girl stuff and boy stuff; it’s all just stuff. Sometimes I don’t feel safe at school and other times I do feel safe. I don’t feel safe at school when I’m in the bathroom or when the fire alarms go off. I also don’t like being alone. I don’t feel safe in the bathroom because the boys just pee everywhere and they aren’t as neat and tidy as the girls. I’m more neat and tidy like the girls. I always go in the stalls, even if I’m going pee. That makes me feel more secure. I feel like I’m a different type of boy. But I’m a boy for sure. I like both male and female pronouns. I don’t really care which ones people use when they talk about me. I feel like pronouns are no big deal. Pronouns are not important to me, rainbows are important to me. My mom says different things are important to different people. People who are LGBTQ are important. That’s a fact. People who are different are very important because they are people, but not everybody sees them that way. My mom and dad used to sometimes think I was transgender – a girl born in a boy’s body. They even thought about letting me transition to being a girl when I was littler. That doesn’t bother me because I know I’d be a boy now. I don’t think it’s possible that I’m transgender because I really like how I am. I’m happy with myself. My mom and dad tell me that some parents with kids who are four and five years old are really stressed out because they have gender creative kids and they don’t know what to do. I would tell those parents to just relax and let your kid be who they are. And, let them know that you love them no matter what. That’s what my parents tell me. If I could talk to myself when I was four years old, I would tell myself “don’t transition, because you are going to like who you are when you’re older. You can like girl stuff without being a girl. You can just be you.” But if a kid is transgender, their parents need to let their kid decide who they are and follow their kid’s lead. If your kid is transgender, let them transition. Let them be who they are. Sometimes it’s hard being a transgender kid or gender creative kid because you’ve got to take a lot of time to figure things out. I think overall parents need to do a lot of relaxing.    All Posts effeminate Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ transgender Inside the Mind of a Gender Creative Boy  In June, early copies of my book arrived and I wrote a letter to introduce it to booksellers.  With the release of my book exactly one week away, I thought I’d let you read what I wrote to the people who will be selling my book. — xoxo, C.J.’s Mom June 2013 Dear Reader, When I was in college studying English literature, my favorite professor told the class that we all have a book inside of us waiting to be written. The thought both excited and terrified me. I pushed it to the back of my mind as I graduated, landed a corporate job, got married, and got pregnant. My first son made me a mother ten years ago. My second son will make me an author on September 3, 2013. My professor had been right. I had a book in me; I just couldn’t know what the topic would be until I started raising a boy who is a girl at heart. My six-year-old son C.J. is gender variant or gender nonconforming or gender creative or has gender identity disorder, whichever you prefer. As C.J. simply explains it, he is “a boy who only likes girl stuff and wants to be treated like a girl.” While my older son is a typical boy who has turned me into a Lego engineer, video gamer, and football mom, my youngest son is a unique boy who has turned me into a princess stalker, hairstyle guinea pig, and Rachel Zoe of the Barbie world. Two and a half years ago, I started an anonymous blog called Raising My Rainbow. The first blog to chronicle the adventures in raising a fabulous, gender creative son, I started it to sort through my emotions and to connect with other parents of gender creative kids and former gender creative kids themselves. I blogged twice a week, my work became syndicated by one of the leading LGBTQ news sites, readers in more than 170 countries tuned in, and gender studies students and faculty at more than fifty college and universities have asked for more. Now, in less than three months (one week as of today!), I’ll be sharing our lives with a broader audience with the release of my blog-inspired book, Raising My Rainbow. I’ll also come out of the blogging closet and identify myself. The book gives a glimpse into our lives to show people that we aren’t weird—we’re just different. And different isn’t bad. Different can and does happen to anybody. Your neighbor. Your coworker. Your friend. Your enemy. You. Raising My Rainbow is about expectations. You don’t always get what you expect when you are expecting. You expect your child’s sex and gender to align. Sometimes they don’t. You expect your male child to like traditionally male things and be physically and emotionally attracted to a woman. Sometimes that doesn’t happen. The book is also about empathy. It took a while to realize that what we want most from other people is empathy. We don’t need people to fully understand gender, sex, and sexuality; we need them to have an open heart and an open mind. Finally, the book is about the evolution of a family. Though we didn’t know it at first, when our son grabbed that first Barbie we set out on a journey of change. No one in our family is the same person he or she was four years ago. Now, I wouldn’t change this experience for anything in the world. Shamefully, I couldn’t always say that. I recently met with that favorite college professor of mine for a glass of wine and to catch up. I wanted to tell her that she had been right. I did have a book in me—but I had to experience life and meet my Barbie-loving, dress-wearing son to know what the topic would be. All my best, always, Lori Duron Pre-order the Raising My Rainbow book!          All Posts Barbie Book Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ parenting Raising My Rainbow Raising My Rainbow Book We All Have A Book Inside Of Us Waiting To Be Written  This is the awkward post that I knew I’d have to publish one day.  The day is here. My book, Raising My Rainbow, goes on sale in exactly two weeks.   So, here I am officially asking you to please buy my book.  Not just buy it, but preorder it. Why?  Because preorders increase the chance that the book will make it onto local and national bestseller lists, which will help immensely in (hopefully) inspiring a conversation that raises awareness of, understanding about and acceptance for gender creative kids. I am the kind of person who hates asking for help.  If I can find a way to do something myself and not bother anybody else, I always will.  I can’t do this by myself. I never thought that I’d be an author or advocate, but here I am – thanks to you all – and I fully intend to use this book to do whatever I can for the greater good of kids like my sweet and sparkly C.J. We appreciate your help “for real-sies,” as C.J. would say.  Here are the preorder buttons.  Thank you times infinity and with total sincerity. Pre-order the Raising My Rainbow book!          All Posts Awkward Book Release Preorder Raising My Rainbow Raising My Rainbow Book Random House Buy My Book…Please  Tell C.J. to draw a cat and this is what you get. One workshop that I was really looking forward to attending at this summer’s Gender Spectrum conference was titled “Helping Your Gender Variant Child With Teasing” and presented by Darlene Tando, LCSW.  Darlene had to cancel her presentation at the last minute due to a family emergency; which left me and many other conference attendees feeling bummed.  To make us feel better, Tando outlined and summarized her presentation and posted it here.  Thanks, Darlene!  Hope you and your family are okay and that we get to see you next year at Gender Spectrum. * * * Twirl, C.J.’s Brother and C.J. If you read Part I of the adventures of C.J. and his BFF Twirl last month, check out the second and final installment.  It features pancakes, a sunny day in Laguna Beach and a teary, hug-filled goodbye.  So, basically, you’re not going to want to miss it. Also, you know how some little boys have a mind for sports stats?  Twirl has a mind for all things Project Runway.  Hear what he has to say here. * * * Last weekend I experienced two big firsts.  I attended my first pride and gave my first book reading.  Thanks, OC Pride for having me.  And, thank you to everybody who came out to support me and get a sneak peek inside my book.  The room was packed – which made me feel so humbled and honored. After the reading, C.J.’s Dad and I experienced our first pride festival.  Where he got several looks and waves and I got a new HRC t-shirt. Pre-order the Raising My Rainbow book!          All Posts bullying Darlene Tando Gender Gender Spectrum HRC Laguna Beach LGBTQ OC Pride teasing twirl Saturday Fodder: Teasing, Twirl and OC Pride Edition  Lori Duron, a writer of extraordinary generosity, has given us a guide to parenthood both gentle and revolutionary.   Raising My Rainbow is a valuable resource not only for parents of gender-nonconforming children, but for readers everywhere who seek the courage to stand up for the ones they love.  Fierce, wise, and illuminating. –Jennifer Finney Boylan, author of SHE’S NOT THERE and STUCK IN THE MIDDLE WITH YOU.   When I first read those words by Jennifer Finney Boylan about me (ME!) I needed  to take a moment to gather myself.  I’ve admired her for more than a decade. I remember being on bedrest during my first pregnancy and watching Oprah interview Boylan as her book She’s Not There was being released.  I rushed to get the book and read it in a matter of days.  I’ve always preferred non-fiction to fiction and her story was one that I hadn’t read before. What strikes me now, is that, even as I read it with a child growing in my belly, I didn’t consider the possibility that my child(ren) could be transgender.  When my second son, C.J., started playing with girl things and wearing girl clothes I thought about Boylan and I found that old copy of She’s Not There on my bookshelf.  I remembered how, long before C.J. came along, she taught me lessons on the fluidity and flexibility of gender and how sometimes a person’s sex and gender don’t align. A few months ago I devoured her latest book, Stuck in the Middle With You.  Boylan —  like all people who approach life with an open heart and open mind — makes me feel safe because I know that she would appreciate and protect my son and my family.  Those kinds of people aren’t always easy to find.  Boylan and her family understand the complexities of gender and that is comforting to me, it makes me not feel so alone and also gives me hope. In Stuck in the Middle With You, Boylan writes that as a man gender was something that she fought against.  I see that in my son, too.  Boylan’s open approach to gender and her bravery in educating readers makes the world a safer, more understanding world for people like my son. There’s this quote that I love:  “You have to go the way your blood beats. If you don’t live the only life you have, you won’t live some other life, you won’t live any life at all.”  I hope that stories like ours and Boylan’s help people to understand that and believe it. Thank you, Jenny. Read what others have said about my book lately: Publisher’s Weekly The Advocate MetroMoms.net  GoodReads.com   Pre-order the Raising My Rainbow book!          All Posts Gender Jennifer Finney Boylan LGBTQ parenting Publisher's Weekly She's Not There Stuck In The Middle With You The Advocate transgender What Jennifer Finney Boylan Said About Me  C.J.’s Brother is 10 and he has come out.  He is straight. Months ago we had a family date night.  The four of us went out for Chinese food and, then, I needed to walk next door to the grocery store to buy toilet paper.  Fun date night, right? I wasn’t familiar with that particular store and I couldn’t find the toilet paper.  I was walking around looking for a needle in the haystack with C.J.’s Brother’s help while C.J. and his Dad were whispering and conspiring about convincing me to buy something great for dessert while we were there.  C.J. wanted cupcakes.  C.J. always wants cupcakes.  My argument that a fortune cookie is dessert wasn’t going to hold up, I could tell. “Mom, why don’t you just buy these lady toilet papers and let’s go,” C.J.’s Brother yelled at me.  He was standing next to an enormous display of on-sale tampons.  He was holding a mega box with a tampon for every flow over his head; like a champion racecar driver holding up a gold cup. “No, baby, I need to find the toilet paper,” I said, trying to ignore the scene. “Mooooooommmmmmm, just buy this lady toilet paper.  We want to go,” C.J.’s Brother said louder, with a hint of nagging.  Tampons still hoisted high. A woman nearby was stifling laughter.  By this time, C.J.’s Dad saw what was happening.  He quickly went over to C.J.’s Brother, took the box of tampons out of his hands, sat it back on the display, smiled at the lady witness, put his arm around our oldest son and distracted him.  I found the toilet paper. “I don’t see why you wouldn’t just buy that lady toilet paper that I found for you,” C.J.’s Brother said.  His feelings were a little hurt. “Because, baby, that isn’t exactly lady toilet paper and, besides, we all need toilet paper,” I said. “Well, then what are those things anyway?  I see them in your bathroom.” I looked at my husband and he looked it me.  I explained what tampons are and what they are for as we paid for our toilet paper and cupcakes and walked back to the car. C.J.’s Brother cried all the way home.  He cried for all the ladies who have ever had their period and for all of the girls he knows who will get their period one day.  He ran down the list. “Do you get a period?” “Yes.” “Did Nana?” “Yeah, when she was younger.” “What about Saige?” “Not yet, but one day she will.” “This is just so horrible.  I feel so sad for all of you girls,” he said through his tears. He slept on the news and woke up with more questions.  Kids at school had been talking and he had had some puberty and sex-type questions in the past.  We had the big, super-detailed sex talk with him. As we ended our discussion he looked at his dad and me. “I’m sorry, but I just don’t know how I’ll ever look at you two the same again.”  With that, he walked out of our room and I went to Game Stop to buy him the video game he had been coveting.  I felt like he deserved a gift for having his world rocked.  And, I wanted him to have something to get his mind off of his dad and me having sex. A few days later C.J.’s Brother was in my bedroom talking to me as I got ready for the day when he mentioned that one of his buddies and a girl from their class were dating.  I asked if he was attracted to anyone at school.  When I talk to my kids about their current or future attractions, I never assume that they are gay or straight. “Mom, I’m straight.  It’s time you faced the facts,” he said. “What?” I was shocked by his directness. “I know what you’re doing.  You always leave it open, like I could be gay.  But, I’m not,” he said. I walked over to the bed where he was. “Okay, but you know that if you were gay or are gay that is totally cool, too, right?” I said. “Yes, of course, but I’m not.” “Okay, but if your feelings change….” “MOM!  I’m straight!” he said with firmness, a smile and a shake of his head. I called my brother. “C.J.’s Brother came out.  He says he’s straight,” I told Uncle Uncle. “What do you mean ‘he says he’s straight’?” Uncle Uncle said. “Well, things could change….” I said. “Babe, he just came out to you.  He told you that he is straight.  You have to listen to him and work from that for now and acknowledge it and believe it.  That’s it.  He’s straight.  You have to honor that – just like you would if C.J. told you that he was gay.  Both of your kids know that you love them and support them and accept them whether they are gay or straight.  But, when they tell you like that you have to believe them.” My brother was right.  I want my kids to know that their sexuality would never change the way I feel about them.  They can be anywhere on the spectrum of sexuality and still have my unconditional love, acceptance and support.  But, when they stake a claim on the spectrum like C.J.’s Brother did, they have to know that I hear them and believe them. So, my oldest son is going into the fifth grade at the school for gifted students.  He has his sights set on becoming a doctor (although, probably not a gynecologist, given how menstruation brings him to tears).  He starts a new season of flag football next month.  And, he is straight.  I am the proud mother of a straight son.    All Posts C.J.'s Brother Gay Gay pride gender creative homosexual LGBTQ parenting Queerty Raising My Rainbow sex sex talk straight tampons C.J.’s Brother Comes Out  Okay.  Don’t Panic.  I’ve refreshed the look and feel of my blog to more closely resemble the cover of my book.  Yay!  I’m really excited about it and think that it conveys C.J.’s light and sparkly spirit.  C.J. likes the pink glitter in particular.  He’s a sucker for glitter, but you already knew that. Change is difficult, or at least it is for me.  I hate it when a website changes on me.  Never fear, the functionality of the blog is largely the same and I’m still working to make some updates.   I admit, I’m no web designer or coder, so please bear with me. I’ve also freshened up my Facebook and Twitter pages.  I hope you like it all.  My book’s September 3 release date is getting closer and this is all part of the preparation process. * * * This week, instead of reading a post written by me, you have to read a post written by one of my best friends.  I met her through my blog and she has an amazing gender creative son of her own.  After years of near-constant emails and texts, we met.  And, so did her son Twirl and C.J.  It was one of the best weekend’s that we’ve had in a long, long time.  Read what happened here.  So if you follow along with Lori’s blog Raising my Rainbow you know exactly who C.J. is. If you don’t, go there and follow. About 2 years ago a group of moms on the internet (think SuperFriends) all started writing to each other with a common bond: advocacy for our children. These women have become my best friends. Lori’s son C.J. and my son Twirl lead very similar lives. As Cory and I would talk to Twirl about other boys like him I started showing him pics of C.J. Lori had sent me, as well as the ones on her blog. He instantly wanted to play with him. I had to explain how it wasn’t possible at the moment because they actually live across the country. But, I said, you could send him an email and say hi, so that’s just how the friendship started. C.J. and Twirl would send each other emails through our accounts with the cutest 3 sentence emails you have ever read. They talked about the things they loved to do, dressing up, fashion shows, favorite characters. They invited each other to do things like birthday parties but always ending with, ” but I know you can’t since you don’ t live here”. One day Cory and I were talking about how some day we just had to get them together. And then one day I just texted Lori and said we are doing it, when can we come visit… * * * I have been nominated as one of Southern California’s Top 25 Bloggers by Circle of Moms. Will you please vote for me?  No sign up needed.  Just click here, find my blog and click on the heart/vote button. You can vote every 24 hours until July 30.    All Posts Circle of Moms Design is Good Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Orange County Raising My Rainbow twirl New Look and New Friends  I’m blogging, Facebooking and tweeting live from the 2013 Gender Spectrum Conference, so check back here throughout the weekend for updates – which I’ll be posting to the top of the page, not the bottom.  🙂 7/14/13 at 4:40 p.m. — My favorite workshop of the conference was Diane Ehrensaft’s Understanding and Supporting Siblings of Gender Diverse Children and Youth. My Notes: It takes a family to launch a gender nonconforming child…but, that’s not necessarily what a sibling wants to do or how they want to spend their time.  Are we asking siblings to step outside their comfort zone and/or do too much? Two important jobs of a parent are to help the child be their authentic self and to keep them safe.  When you are raising a gender diverse child, sometimes it feels like those two jobs are at odds. Siblings are an often forgotten — but critical — part of the family support system. They outlive the parents.  They are part of the same generation.   And, they need support too. Siblings can be that child’s best ally or worse foe, depending on the circumstances. Sometimes the sibling has the ability to “out” their gender diverse sibling.  They hold a lot of power.  What will they do with that power?  Are they being asked to keep a huge family secret?  Is that fair? Siblings typically want to help, but they don’t know what to do or say and that can lead them to feel inadequate. Siblings can grow resentful of all the focus on gender. What do siblings need?  Empathy about their own anxieties, confusions and vulnerabilities. A place where they can air their own feelings out independently.  They need their own space and often don’t get it. A dialogue between only the siblings (with an adult as a listener).  The siblings talk honestly.  How does it feel to be gender diverse?  How does it feel to have a gender diverse sibling? A toolkit.  What will they say and/or do when they get various questions and reactions from other kids?  7/14/13 at 3:47 p.m. — I attended a workshop put on by the Human Rights Campaign. A while ago, the HRC surveyed 10,030 LGBT identified youth between the ages of 13 and 17 and issued the findings in a report titled  “Growing up LGBT in America.” You can access the report here; http://www.hrc.org/youth/about-the-survey-report#.UeLNSqWVh65 From that original report, two other reports were compiled and issued recently. The Coming Out Experience for LGBT Youth;  http://www.hrc.org/youth/download-the-report/#.UeLVH6WVh64 Supporting and Caring for our Latino LGBT Youth; http://www.hrc.org/youth/#.UeLVP6WVh64 Now, they’ve announced that there will be a third report.  And it’s about gender and the emerging self-definitions young people are using to label their own gender.  I got a sneak peek at some of the findings. Here are some interesting things that I can share: Of the 10,030 LGBT identified youth who were surveyed 925 identified as “”transgender or gender other.” Of those 925, 89% reported that they are living with members of their family.  Where are the other 11% of these 13 to 17 year olds living?  As a mom, that worries me. From those 925 “transgender or gender other” youth, 18 gender categories emerged as the youth self-defined their gender. Here are the categories:  Gender queer  (37% of participants) Androgynous (16% of participants) Gender fluid (9% of participants) Bigender General non-binary Both Other female Other male Gender as object Third gender Middle Questioning Genderless General person Neutral None Neither Unknown  That’s all I can offer you for now.  The HRC’s Gender Report is in the final stages and will be available this fall.  I can’t wait. 7/13/13 at 3:45 p.m. — I spoke today on the Parent Empowerment Panel: Working With Schools In Service Of My Gender Diverse Student with Johanna Eager from Welcoming Schools.  She provides professional development to schools and school districts that are interested in implementing Welcoming Schools by using their tools, resources and lessons.  It’s a project of the HRC and, better yet, it’s free to districts!  WelcomingSchools.org. Me. Speaking. Also on the panel was Lisa Keating, the mother of an eight year old son who blurs the lines between boy and girl.  She is also the founder and executive director of My Purple Umbrella.  The mission of “My Purple Umbrella” is to provide a fun, loving, safe and creative environment for gender independent children 13 and under through play. They also provide a support network for families and caretakers.  Check it out at mypurpleumbrella.org 7/13/13 at 3:04 p.m. — Attended The Biology of Gender Workshop led by Stephen M. Rosenthal, MD. Dr. Rosenthal is a pediatric doctor at UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital and director of endocrine clinics at UCSF and led an effort to create a Child and Adolescent Gender Center to treat the condition known as gender identity disorder and to offer medical and psychological care. Gender Identity Disorder is now called Gender Dysphoria. Core Diagnostic Criteria:  Persistent desire to be the other gender or insistence that s/he is the other gender. Clinically significant emotional distress. No concurrent physical “intersex” condition.  Other Things I Learned:  How common is the transgender condition?  Not rare.  1 in 12,000. Children of parents who pressure them to conform to “traditional gender norms” are almost four times more likely to attempt suicide and use drugs. * * * The first workshop I attended was Parenting for Greater Freedom of Gender Expression and Experience. Workshop leader Abigale Ada Grace introduced herself and then said: “I’m female body and female born and I’m comfortable in that.  But I don’t feel comfortable as a ‘girl.’” Yes!  This! Things I Learned:  Your Gender Experience is what you take in. What you observe.  What you experience.  It’s the reactions to your gender expression that you notice and absorb.  You don’t really have much of a choice when it comes to your Gender Experience. When another parent cries as they struggle with their child’s gender identity, I cry too.  I should have packed tissues.     All Posts Live Blog From The Gender Spectrum Conference!  Last month, C.J.’s Dad and I went to New York City.  So many of you suggested things to do while we were there, that I thought I’d share a little bit more about our trip. We were in New York to meet the wonderful group of people who are working to make my book a success.  They are people who have come to know our family, care about our message and believe wholeheartedly that it needs to be shared with the world. While meeting all of them and finally putting faces to names and voices, I was reminded of how lucky I am and how thankful I am for my blog’s readers. If I completely oversimplify it, this is how my journey to becoming a published author went. I started a blog.  Some people read it and liked it.  They shared it with others.  One reader posted a link to it in the comment section of a hugely popular news and gossip website.  An agent saw it, clicked it, liked it, emailed me and helped me get a book deal. Condensed like that, it leaves out a massive amount of excitement, anxiety, struggle, contemplation, thought and wine. We went to New York to meet my agent for the first time.  We also met with “my team.”  I have a team.  How weird is that?  Here we all are. Sheila, PublisherDanielle, MarketingJulie, MarketingSarah, PublicityMeKari, AgentAnnsley, Publicity Thank you to all of you who have read my blog and shared it with others.   You have played a huge part in making me an author.  That reader who left my link in a comment box on the Internet changed my life forever. * * * Can I ask for a favor?  For the second year in a row, I have been nominated as one of Southern California’s Top 25 Bloggers by Circle of Moms.  Will you please vote for me?  No sign up needed.  Click here, look for the “Top Blogs” list, find my blog and click on the heart/vote button.  You can vote every 24 hours until July 30. * * * Check out these to music videos featuring gender nonconforming boys.  Both are really well done.  Love them! Kingsley Flood:  Sun Gonna Lemme Shine  Jillette Johnson: Cameron  * * * This weekend is the Gender Spectrum Conference in Berkeley.  I’ll be speaking and blogging/Facebooking/Tweeting live from the event.    All Posts Friday Fodder: NYC Pic, Vote For Me, Music Video Edition  C.J. and I were at the park on a sunny summer day when we ran into a girl from his kindergarten class and her mother.  As the kids played, the mom and I got to talking about our respective summer plans and made small talk.  I’m not very good at small talk. C.J. made this at his fine art summer camp today. He says it’s the best picture that he’s ever done. I agree. After awhile, she touched on the subject of C.J. being different and liking girl stuff.  She had volunteered in his classroom throughout kindergarten and had seen him gravitate toward pink and purple, be the only boy to play house, carry a Monster High lunchbox and draw himself as a girl. Because I work, I only volunteered in C.J.’s class once last year.  His dad did it a handful of times.  I often wondered what the moms who volunteered on a weekly basis thought of my son.  There were at least three of them who were in the class so often that I wondered if they were on the payroll. I assumed they had chatted amongst themselves about C.J.’s effeminate ways at least a few (or 250) times.  I know how Orange County moms talk.  They may have even brought it up to his teacher.  But they had never, not until now, in the safety of summer, brought it up to me. “C.J. is gender nonconforming,” I said matter-of-factly and with a kind smile. Her eyes immediately darted to C.J.  Yes, he was within earshot.  She looked at me and jerked her head toward him to indicate that he could hear what I was saying. “Oh, he knows he’s gender nonconforming,” I assured her. C.J. looked up and smiled at me.  Then, he went back to playing a complicated pat-a-cake game with his girl friend. For C.J. knowing that he is gender nonconforming is like knowing that he has red hair, hates ketchup and that high-fives feel too aggressive.  It’s a fact.  It’s something that makes him who he is, but doesn’t totally define him — even though, for us, some days it feels like it does. When he got home from camp, C.J. busted out his Easy Bake Oven and whipped these up. The mom was swimming in an awkward silence.  Staring at her daughter because she didn’t know what else to do.  I watched her swim for a minute or two.  I didn’t rush to make her feel safe. “How did you explain that to him?” she finally asked. “Well, we didn’t.  He explained it to us.  Not in so many words, but he’s always been a boy who only likes girl stuff.  We just gave him the term once we learned it.  And, that was so long ago now that it’s like he’s never known life without that phrase,” I explained.  “He uses it just as much as we do now.” “But, other kids don’t know what it means,” she stated. “Most don’t, but he explains it to them if he feels comfortable doing so.  Some kids hear that big-sounding term and don’t ask what it means.  I’m sure it sounds too confusing to even deal with,” I said. “Do parents ever get mad when he explains it to their child?” she asked.  I wondered if she would have gotten mad if C.J. had explained gender nonconformity to her daughter prior to our conversation. I took a second. Safety first. C.J. always buckles up his babies. “If they do, they don’t tell me.  But, you know, I equate it to kids letting other people know that they have some other special or unique need.  It’s something that is beneficial for others to know and to keep the child safe, but doesn’t necessarily need to be declared,” I explained. She got silent again.  She was thinking.  She was uncomfortable. “He also knows what it means to be transgender and homosexual,” I said. “Come on, honey.  We have to get you to swim lessons,” she called to her daughter. Maybe I should get better at small talk.  Or maybe I shouldn’t tell my son so much.  The jury is still out.    All Posts Main Site Header Gender gender creative gender nonconforming homosexual Kindergarten LGBTQ Orange County parenting Queerty Raising My Rainbow transgender He Knows He’s Gender Nonconforming  I hope that all of you in the U.S. had a safe and festive Fourth of July holiday.  We enjoyed the day at home with some of our closest friends, squeezing in some quality time before our lives get hectic with events and activities in support my book’s release on September 3. July 12 through 14, I will be in Berkeley, California, at the 2013 Gender Spectrum Conference, where I will participate on the following panel: Parent Empowerment Panel: Working with Schools in Service of My Gender Diverse Student Increasingly, children and teens are attending schools and maintaining their gender independent expression and/or identities. In the process, they are often pushing up against schools and systems not necessarily prepared to support them, requiring caregivers to advocate on their child’s behalf. This panel session will include various individuals who have worked with their schools (often collaboratively but sometimes in the face of strong resistance) to ensure their child’s safety and well-being. As families share their stories, participants will hear various lessons learned and strategies implemented for effectively engaging schools to take the necessary steps to meet the needs of gender diverse students. The deadline to register for the 2013 Gender Spectrum Conference is July 8.  And, there will be onsite registration at the event. I will be blogging, Facebooking and tweeting live from the conference.  So if you can’t attend, follow me as I learn and grow.  I’ve never been to the Gender Spectrum Conference but have heard such great things about it.  I can’t wait to dive in and share my experiences with you. Next up after Gender Spectrum is BlogHer 2013.  This year, the largest conference for women bloggers (men attend to!) will be held July 25 through 27 in Chicago.  I’ll be speaking on the following panel: Politics & Activism Roundtable: What You Learn When You Speak Out A series of poignant vignettes from BlogHer community members who have suddenly been thrust into the most unimaginable situations. How they coped, and what they learned about online community and advocacy. Presenters: Adria Richards, C.J.’s Mom, and Mir Kamin I’m also incredibly honored to be one of BlogHer’s 2013 Voices Of The Year. Six weeks + 2,600 submissions + 15 committee members = The 2013 BlogHer Voices of the Year! (Affectionately known as #VOTY.) This year’s VOTY submission process has been a magnificent journey through the hearts and minds of the blogosphere. We are so excited to honor these 100 bloggers — writers, speakers, and artists, who have pushed us to think more, feel more, share more, and do more. They specifically recognized my “My Son’s Christmas Dress” post from the holiday season. Because I am a speaker at BlogHer ’13, my family, friends and fans can get 20 percent off of the conference registration fee.  Here’s the registration link and  promo code (BH13SPKR) in case you are interested. Will I see you in Berkeley or Chicago?            All Posts BlogHer Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Spectrum Voices of the Year VOTY Friday Fodder: Busy Summer Edition  Following are highlights (lowlights not included!) from our months on Instagram. Click here for all of the months’ pictures, thoughts and happenings. If you’re on Instagram, follow me. If you already follow me, thanks! C.J. leaves this message wherever he can. Here, he wrote it in chalk on the floor of a busy restaurant that encourages patrons of all ages to draw on the floor. Every time he leaves his “be yourself” message out in public, part of me thinks that someone who needs the message will happen upon it after we leave. But, most of all, I hope that C.J. always feels pride when it comes to the things that make him different and that he’ll always feel brave enough to be himself.   With no summer camp this week, my son has spent a lot of time drawing his favorite superheroes.   Serving everyone the “Pride Eye.” According to C.J., his “Pride Eye” look is inspired by the colors he saw at Pride this year, cotton candy, unicorns, love and happiness.   Sometimes, to celebrate the end of a rough week, you find the closest Pride, buy two train tickets, travel two hours and then…you march.   “What should I do now?,” C.J. asks at least once a day because he knows if he tells me he’s bored I’ll tell him only boring people can be bored. “Why don’t you sew something? The machine is out,” I said the other day. At age 10, he knows his way around the machine just as well as I do. He made this skirt in an afternoon.   This week C.J. added contortionist to the list of things he wants to be when he grows up. We encourage and empower young girls. We tell them they can be whatever they want to be when they grow up. Make sure we do the same for boys. C.J.’s list of future professions includes: artist, makeup artist, drag queen, Olympic gymnast, hair stylist, contortionist, RuPaul’s Drag Race judge, AGT judge, Cupcake Wars judge.   It’s C.J.’s last day of sewing camp. He made lots of friends and lots of drag queens. Here’s his felt Sasha Velour. The employees at our local Joann’s Store were so supportive and encouraging of C.J. – who was the only boy enrolled in sewing camp. They told him that they see a future for him on Project Runway. They were even more complimentary of Matt, who took C.J. into the store an hour before each day of camp to pick out new fabric, notions and patterns. “It’s so great to see a dad in here buying fabric for his son and encouraging him to sew. A lot of dads wouldn’t do that,” they said to Matt. They’re right and I’m glad they gave Matt the kudos he deserves. He’s the best dad. (But, this also got me thinking, how come I’ve been celebrated for taking Chase shopping at a sporting goods store?)   I spoke at Aetna today about raising a gender creative child. The Q&A session that followed was the most emotional I’ve experienced in a while. It was a reminder that you never know what the other people in the room or your co-workers are going through. Be nice to people, listen and practice empathy.   This week C.J. is the only boy at sewing camp. He’s also the only one who made a Violet Chachki hand puppet.   Yesterday I spent the afternoon speaking at the Orange County Bar Association about raising a gender creative child and provided thoughts and guidance for interacting with children of all gender identities and expressions. What a great group of caring and inquisitive people!   C.J.’s perfect summer day includes having his three best girl friends over to jump on the trampoline, swim and do makeup. “Let me show you a trick I learned from drag queens,” I heard him say several times during their makeup session.   I was cooking dinner and noticed I was all alone downstairs and the house had grown very quiet. Then, Matt texted me this pic from upstairs. C.J. had been doing makeup all weekend. Just when he thought he was running out of willing faces, he asked Matt. And, Matt said yes. Like he always does.   And, yes, I absolutely did immediately come to the defense of women everywhere and make it very clear that women are strong and fierce protectors. It didn’t matter. He still wants a husband instead of a wife. # # #    All Posts Gay pride Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Instagram July June LGBTQ Month In Review Orange County parenting Our Month(s) in Review: June and July 2017  This week’s People magazine has a great article about a transgender girl named Nikki and her family.  Read the first four paragraphs here. I feel the need to point out that Nikki is adopted, only because I’ve noticed and noted that 75 percent of the families who have contacted me looking for camaraderie, resources, advice, etc. are raising a gender nonconforming child that is not biologically theirs. I wrote about it back in February. * * * Speaking of parents/caregivers contacting me for help, I have two parents looking to connect with other families in their area who are also raising gender nonconforming boys. If there is a gender nonconforming boy in your life who is looking to playdate and you live in Boston or the New Jersey/Philadelphia area please let me know and I’ll make the e-introduction. * * * If you live in the Seattle area, click here for a list of Gender Diversity resources that one of my readers recently sent to me. Gender Diversity provides services and support that help families understand the wide range of naturally occurring gender identities and expressions that exist. Their monthly support groups for parents and guardians of gender nonconforming and transgender children began in 2008, making it one of the longest running and largest network of support groups in the country. Their groups meet at Seattle Children’s Hospital, the Polyclinic Madison Center, and a number of other locations throughout the greater Puget Sound area. They have support groups for families with kids ages 11 and under and 12 to 20; fathers only groups; kids play groups and more.  I wish we had this in Orange County, California! * * * I have a reader (location unknown) who is looking for resources specifically for parents/caregivers raising gender nonconforming girls.  Blogs?  Websites?  Groups?  Anything?  Send me suggestions if you have any. * * * And, finally, for pride season, FarFaria (a subscription-based children’s storybook app for the iPad) is releasing four awesome books. FarFaria has always published stories with characters of diverse backgrounds. These stories encourage acceptance of and kindness towards others as a family value. To help parents strengthen this value in their family FarFaria is releasing four new stories in June. Stories like “Patrick’s Pride” (June 6), “Henry the Venus Flytrap” (June 12), “The Boy with the Pink Socks” (June 20) and “Kindness Grows” (June 25) encourage values of acceptance and appreciation of diversity in young readers. C.J. especially likes Patrick’s Pride, which features a lion cub with two moms.  Check it out!    All Posts Farfaria Gender Diversity gender nonconforming Orange County People Magazine Friday Fodder: We Have A Lot To Cover Edition  I was standing in the kitchen making breakfast for my two sons.  They wanted waffles and bananas.  They wanted whipped cream on top, not syrup.  They said it was summertime and we should celebrate with whipped cream.  It was sometime around seven in the morning in California. My smart phone turned bright with an announcement. #BREAKINGNEWS Supreme Court strikes down federal provision denying benefits to legally married gay couples Was I reading it right?  Did it mean what I thought it meant?  Could it possibly be true?  Was my smart phone smarter than me?  It was too early in the morning.  The news alert was too confusing.  I needed it in plain English.  I consulted an expert source: Facebook. Where were you when you learned DOMA was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court? It was the first post that popped up.  I paused.  DOMA had been declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court.  Where was I?  I was standing in my kitchen with a bottle of syrup in one hand and my phone in the other.  I looked at my sons sitting on the couch.  I looked at C.J.  He’s growing his hair out “like a girl” and every strand was sticking out in a different direction due to a good night’s sleep.  He still looked dreamy in his flowered pajamas with a hula girl on them.  One leg was daintily crossed over the other and his pedicure was showing signs of wear. I got the goose bumps.  Literally got goose bumps.  Something had happened and I was having a physical reaction.  I looked at my goosebumps.  I looked at my phone.  In our state, my brother can get married when and if he wants to.  I looked at my gender nonconforming son.  If he grows up to be gay he will be able to get married.  All of my LGBTQ friends are finally being treated as human beings deserving of all of the rights, privileges and freedoms that I was granted simply for being straight. I started to cry.  Even though I had already done my makeup in preparation for a day at the office.  Big, slow tears took their time down my cheeks.  One day my sons will be able to marry the person of their choice and have it recognized by our state and our country. I put the syrup away and got out the whipped cream.  I applied it liberally to their waffles and set the plates in front of them.  They cheered.  So did I. I got in the car and headed to work.  I had a voicemail.  My mother-in-law had called to get my brother’s phone number so that she could call and wake him up and be the first person to congratulate him on being able to get legally wed. My husband called on his way home from working the night shift. I answered the phone. “Hello?” I figured that he hadn’t heard the news. “It’s a great day for our cause, mama!” he said. I teared up again and thought of a quote I had seen on Pinterest. “Crying doesn’t indicate that you’re weak, it just means that you’ve been strong for too long.” My husband and I have a cause that we’re passionate about.  We are reluctant advocates.  For three years, we’ve given people a glimpse into our lives, into the adventures in raising a gender nonconforming, possibly gay son in hopes that they would see that we are not weird.  We are different.  We are parents doing the best that we can as we raise a son who at times has wanted to be our daughter and, at other times, has longed to be a stereotypical gay man. Risk is a four-letter word to us.  And, openly blogging about our LGBTQ son has been a risk that we reluctantly took.  Had anybody else done it before us or at the same time as us or done it after us, we gladly would have stepped off our soap box and supported and cheered from the sidelines. But, that didn’t happen.  So we kept on keeping on.  Getting more and more invested in LGBTQ rights and our sons’ futures with each passing day. When I learned the DOMA and Prop 8 rulings today it felt like a victory for me.  Even though I’ve been married for 13 years.  More than that, it felt like my six-year-old son – who has been called “gay,” “faggot,” “dick sucker” and “freak” —  is being seen as a human being worthy of equal rights by the highest court in all the land. I could have easily spent the day crying…and eating whipped cream…and cheering with my sons.    All Posts On This Day in History  Today was the last day of school.  C.J. has bid kindergarten adieu and will spend the summer gearing up for first grade.  There are tears — in my eyes, not his. That’s C.J. in the lower left-hand corner, in case you didn’t recognize him. He was wearing extra mascara that day. I’m sad and anxious, as I have been at the end of every one of C.J.’s school years.  I don’t know what to expect next.  Who will his teacher be?  Who will his classmates be?  Who will accept his gender creativity?  Who will make him feel small because he likes girl stuff big time? C.J.’s kindergarten year was amazing.  His teacher, Ms. Valentine, deserves much of the credit.  She greeted him on the first day with her big blue eyes, perfect blonde hair, sweet smile and leopard-print shoes.  She knew who he was.  He was the gender nonconforming boy.  The boy who likes girl stuff.  The boy whose mom is sometimes seen as a liability…what, with her blog and all. Ms. Valentine had, as I hoped, read the letter that I wrote to her and posted on my blog days before school started.  She took it all in with an open heart and an open mind. I met with her early on to talk about C.J., his gender nonconformity and how it all affects his learning and time at school.  She was kind, optimistic and excited to have him in her class.  C.J. was safe in her care; I knew it from moment number one. “Does my teacher know that I like girl stuff?” C.J. asked every day for weeks leading up to the first day of school and for a few weeks after it started. “Ms. Valentine?  Yes, baby, she knows,” I reassured him. “What did she say about it?” “She thinks it’s awesome.” C.J. smiled that red-haired, freckled-nose, dimpled-cheek smile that always makes me smile too.  He loves it when people know and accept that he is gender nonconforming. The first day of school, Ms. Valentine started a new tradition of not lining the students up by sex.  There would be no “boys’ line” or “girls’ line” in C.J.’s class.  She winked at me.  I smiled and nodded my head in gratitude. All of the other moms struggled with the concept.  They had a hard time comprehending what was happening.  If there wasn’t a line for girls and a line for boys how would anybody function?  How would the kids walk into the classroom and around campus?  How would the earth continue to spin?  For the first week of school the other moms tried to divide the lines based on genitals every morning.  And, every morning Ms. Valentine would remind them that she was doing things differently this year. C.J. instantly felt safe in Ms. Valentine’s presence.  She had pretty hair, sassy shoes and she smelled good.  He was sold. That’s C.J. in the middle. Looks like he has fresh low-lights and a sleek blow-out. He spent the year self-editing more than ever.  Not prompted by anyone — not us, not Ms. Valentine.  It was totally his decision.  I had been told that gender nonconforming kids start to conform more once they enter kindergarten.  C.J. did just that at school.  At home he remained our sparkly son. In kindergarten, he drew himself as a boy for the first time in his life.  He decided at the last minute not to wear his Rapunzel pajamas on Pajama Day.  He stopped wearing the necklaces and bracelets that he beads in his free time. He did, however, continue to wear “girl socks” every day tucked into his “girl shoes.”  His Monster High lunchbox is thrashed from a year of daily use.  And, he got plenty of compliments the day he wore his purple, glittered Wicked t-shirt to school. He hated the week when he was “Special Bear.”  Five days were all about him and he was supposed to share about himself, his family and his home life every day.  He didn’t want to.  He has his public self and his private self.  Sometimes the two overlap, but sometimes he doesn’t want them to.  And, that’s fine. He did, however, love the Mother’s Day fashion show when we got to walk the runway in his purple plaid shirt, magenta bow tie and pink boat shoes for everyone to see.  It was his first legit catwalk and it felt like home. If you ask him, he’ll tell you that his favorite subjects in kindergarten were playing on the playground with his friends and doing crafts.  It’s the academic portion of school that he struggled with. Old Mac C.J. made a farm. You see, when your focus is on self-editing and self-preservation, learning your ABCs and 123s don’t seem important.  He’s concerned about being teased about liking girl stuff and not about identifying numbers one through 30 out of sequence.  In the end he qualified to move on to first grade.  He meets state requirements, but there was the option of having him repeat kindergarten. His dad and I had to struggle with the decision to push him onward and upward or hold him back.  A mom who I met through PFLAG told me that her therapist believes that LGBTQ kids are usually a year behind their peers academically because they are having to deal with all-consuming social and life issues while staying on top of school work.  It can seem overwhelming. I’ve also had people tell me that LGBTQ youth are typically more gifted than their peers. Who knows who is right? In September C.J. will strut into first grade; into an unfamiliar classroom helmed by a teacher who we do not know.  Will she have an open heart and an open mind?   That’s all we ask for.  But, we’ve come to realize that those are two big things to ask of someone.  It shouldn’t be that way, but it is. Whoever C.J.’s first grade teacher is, we hold out hope that s/he will be as great as Ms. Valentine has been.  We also hope that Ms. Valentine has a bitchin’ summer and that she’ll K.I.T.    All Posts Main Site Header bullying first grade gender creative gender nonconforming Kindergarten LGBTQ Ms. Valentine Orange County parenting PFLAG Raising My Rainbow Goodbye Kindergarten  “Mom, I got in a fight today at school,” C.J. said to me as I entered the house after a long day at work. “What?!” I said setting down my purse, laptop bag and workbag while trying to get my heels off as quickly as possible. “Yeah, it’s true. I got in a fight with Mia,” he said. “What kind of fight?  Why?” “I told her that I got to stay up late to watch the Tony’s that you recorded and she said that Neil Patrick Harris is not a real person, that he is fake and not a real human being,” C.J. explained. “And, what did you say to that?” “I told her that yeah huh he is.  But then she kept saying it.  She said it ELEVEN times!” he said both irritated and dumbfounded. “Well, she’s wrong.  He is a real person,” I said. “I know, I tried telling her but she wouldn’t listen.  I told her to watch the Tony’s tonight like I’m going to.” “And, what did she say to that?” “She doesn’t know about that show.  None of my friends know about the Tony show.  But, everyone else believed me that Neil Patrick Harris is too a real person,” he explained. C.J. has been watching the Tony’s in 30-minute increments since they aired.  He is obsessed.  Now, he can’t decide which awards show he wants to go to next year: The Tony Show (Tony Awards) or The Night When Everybody Dresses Fancy (Academy Awards).  Lucky for him he has several months to make up his mind and figure out a way to score an invite to one or the other. * * * Thanks to all of you for the awesome suggestions of things to do while in New York City.  Thanks to you, we’ve walked the High Line and visited Chelsea Market — where we ate a grilled cheese sandwich, drank a hot chocolate and had a People’s Pop.  Tomorrow we have a tour of the Tenement Museum.  You guys are the best!    All Posts Academy Awards Kindergarten LGBTQ Neil Patrick Harris Tony Awards C.J. Defends NPH  How many walks does your son have?  Because my gender creative son has four walks not including his normal everyday walk, which he refers to as his boring walk.  He’s named all of his walks.  Naturally. He keeps his four non-boring walks in his arsenal for use pretty regularly throughout the day depending on the location, occasion and audience. He has also been known to do a hybrid of two or three walks if the mood strikes. Let me explain. There’s his Fashion Walk which is pretty much straight from the runways. He gets a real serious face and tries to walk by putting one foot directly in front of the other or crossed over the other if at all possible. His eyes look straight ahead. He erases his usually smile in favor of a serious pout and then sucks in his cheeks. Usually he puts his right hand on his right hip and swings his left hand dramatically.  Think angry hungry stomping model. His Fashion Walk is most often used inside of a mall and has been spotting in JC Penny, Forever 21, Nordstrom and Target. When he is doing his Sassy Diva Walk, his rump sticks out a little more than usual and at least one of his wrists hangs limp from the elbow that is kept tightly at his side. Sassy Diva Walk steps are either very short and quick or long fast strides.  For some reason, this walk requires him to look left and right a lot as if he’s looking for someone he knows, although I’m pretty sure that when you’re doing the Sassy Diva Walk you wouldn’t wave to a friend if you saw him/her because you’re too busy being a sassy diva.  Think Beyonce as “Sasha Fierce.” This walk is best suited for busy places with a fast pace full of people with things to do. It has been utilized at the local art fair, the end-of-the-school-year carnival and, again, Target. It got the most use on our recent Carnival cruise. The Rock Star Walk is a little out of control and inconsistent. Which I guess is fitting given the name.  It usually has big sloppy steps that swing a little wide to the sides. His head can bob from side to side or up and down dramatically.  His arms flail and do all sorts of made up hand signs that I assume he uses to convey that he’s a glittery unpredictable badass who has seen some things in his short life.  Think Avril Lavigne meets Pink. The Rock Star Walk is the most “masculine” of my son’s walks. I’ve seen it used around his brother’s friends, at Dave and Busters, amusement parks and Target (yes, we go there a lot and it is welcoming of all of my son’s walks). I saved his Ballerina Walk for last because it looks to be the most painful. Because he doesn’t have pointe shoes, he curls his toes under his feet and hops up on top of them. He then walks gracefully and painfully with his head held high, shoulders back and arms out to the sides. His lips are sucked inside his mouth, which I believe is because he’s trying to hold in yelps of pain.  Think Natalie Portman in Black Swan. This walk can only be safely done on carpet. Which means that few have ever witnessed it.  That is for the best because those who have seen it have had to look away as they imagine how much it would hurt them to walk that way. His normal walk is just his natural gait and carries him to school and other boring places like the grocery store and Home Depot.  And that’s fine because I use my normal, boring walk there too. This Friday and Saturday, C.J.’s Dad and I will be walking around New York City.  We’ve seen most of the major touristy things.  What should we do and where should we eat/drink?  If you have a recommendation, please leave a comment below or email me at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com.  Thanks!    All Posts Main Site Header Avril Lavigne Beyonce effeminate Fashion Gay pride Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Orange County parenting Queerty Raising My Rainbow Walks My Son’s Many Walks  Who’s going to the 2013 Gender Spectrum Conference?  Me! The 2013 Gender Spectrum Conference is designed to create a welcoming and supportive community for all gender nonconforming youth, their allies, caregivers and professionals. The conference provides the most up-to-date quality information and resources, with more than 45 workshops around relevant topics in the fields of medicine, mental health, education, the law and social issues.  I’ll be speaking.  😉 Click here for more information. * * * PFLAG wants your help! There are currently more than forty prospective PFLAG chapters in the process of being started, which would grow PFLAG’s network to 400 chapters in communities in all 50 states. Most of this growth is happening in areas where the introduction of equality legislation is progress and even being out as a LGBTQ person or an ally is an act of tremendous courage. Two small, no-cost actions on your part can help PFLAG National create and support new chapters! 1.  Esurance has long supported LGBT equality. In fact they offer same-sex couples married rates, even in states that have not yet passed a law in support of marriage equality!  This year, Esurance is donating $100,000 to three worthy charities, including PFLAG! Each will get a percentage of the donation based on the number of votes received. Visit on.fb.me/15KFgSD once per day, between now and June 30th, to cast your vote for PFLAG National to earn up to $100K from Esurance! 2. For over a decade, Orbitz has supported dozens of LGBT and HIV/AIDS charities nationwide and now, Orbitz is helping to support PFLAG as it further expands the PFLAG chapter network across the country. Visit bit.ly/15apGz7 to download Orbitz’ FREE app for your phone, and Orbitz will donate up to $10 to PFLAG National to support the creation and growth of new chapters. * * * Read this:  Defying Stereotypes: Navy SEAL Team 6 Soldier Comes Out As Transgender In A Powerful New Book      All Posts Gender Spectrum Navy Navy SEAL PFLAG Friday Fodder: Gender Spectrum, PFLAG and Navy SEAL Edition  In honor of LGBT Families Day (June 3, 2013), GLAAD contacted me and asked me to publish something on a topic related to LGBT families.  Instead of a blog post, I wrote the following poem. My son is not blue he is pink. He twirls. He sparkles. He captivates.   My son is not blue he is pink. He skips in his dress. Wears his nightgown to bed. Paints his nails with a steady hand.   My son is not blue he is pink. He dreams of being a grown up. The girl on top of the wedding cake and a daddy who is more like a mommy.   I grew up with a boy who was not blue but was pink. Who loved Wonder Woman. Who turned into a rainbow. Who watches his nephew and smiles.   A pink mom married to blue dad raising two boys — one blue and one pink. Boys who can be any color of their choice. Love the person of their choice. Live the life of their choice.   Because when you are a family with a boy who is not blue — but is pink, you learn to not care what other people think.      All Posts Main Site Header Gay Gay pride gender creative gender nonconforming GLAAD LGBT Families Day LGBTQ Raising My Rainbow My Son Is Not Blue He Is Pink  Stop everything you’re doing and set your DVR to record The Hub’s new series titled SheZow!.  It premieres tomorrow, June 1, at 12:30 p.m. EDT/9:30 a.m. PDT. Learn more about the series here.  “Twelve-year-old Guy is an extreme dude who inherits the power ring of his deceased aunt – the amazing superhero SheZow! The ring gives him villain-battling super powers, but was meant to be worn by a girl and the result is absolutely she-larious! A lovable yet mischievous tween who hates responsibility, Guy Hamdon is suddenly forced to save the world as the legendary female superhero SheZow. Trapped inside a crazy female superhero costume with big hair, high heeled go-go boots and she-mazing superpowers like mega strength and she-riffic speed, Guy “plays” the part of heroine on his way to becoming a super man. Once Guy Hamdon utters the magic words, ‘You go girl!’ he becomes SheZow…and it’s ‘No more Mister Nice Girl!’” * * * After you’ve set your DVR to record SheZow!, stop everything  you’re doing and check out the new photography project by one of my readers, Parisa Taghizadeh. View the amazing photos here.  “BOY is a series of portraits of my son who enjoys “dress-up.” Although the project seems to be about a boy’s love for princesses and fairies, it’s more an inquiry into what little boys are allowed to be before the world changes them and molds them into some notion of what it means to be a man in our society.” Seriously people, the photos moved me.  I could see C.J. in them.  They are beautiful and captivating, but more than that they show the perfect innocence that boys like C.J. sparkle because of.  I can’t stop looking at the photos. * * * After you’ve checked out Parisa’s photos, stop everything you’re doing and go straight to Facebook and “Like” Millions of Moms for Love. “We will not stand silently while groups like One Million Moms or the American Family Foundation spread their anti-gay message. We believe every human being has the right to love who he or she was born to love and not suffer discrimination because of it!” This group and its founder reinforce that you should never underestimate the power of a mother.  Learn more in this article about Millions Moms for Love by GLAAD. * * * Other things that have interested me this week: A recent USA Today story about a family raising a gender variant child: http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2013/05/28/gender-boy-girl-school/2366811/ A recent CNN post about sex/gender stereotyping kids: http://www.cnn.com/2013/05/28/opinion/perry-gender-children    All Posts Gender GLAAD Millions of Moms for Love Parisa Parisa Taghizadeh SheZow! The Hub Friday Fodder: Stop Everything You’re Doing Edition  All photo credits: C.J.’s Dad (cause when I say I need playground photos, he gets the job done.) I admit it; I can very easily get myself all worked up when people talk ignorantly about LGBTQ issues.  Even when the person talking ignorantly is five years old.  I should have more self-control, but I don’t.  So there. “Mom, Marina from my class told me that boys can’t marry boys,” C.J. said as he climbed into my car after school. “And, what did you say to that?” I asked. “I said yeah-huh, that boys can marry boys and girls can marry girls.” “And, then what did she say?” “She said that I was wrong and lying and that boys can’t marry boys and if I kept saying that she was going to tell the teacher on me.” The feisty part of me (which makes up about 80+ percent of my personality) wanted to get out of my car, find Marina and her mom in the parking lot and explain to them that boys can marry boys.  Not in our state of course, but in some other states.  And, it’s not federally recognized.  But still. Here’s the thing. I feel like Marina wasn’t spreading a message in support of marriage equality when she was informing who knows how many kindergartners that boys can’t marry boys.  I feel like she was saying that it’s not right for boys to be in relationships with boys, period.  The way C.J. relayed the conversation to me her tone was negative and antagonistic. How did the topic come up anyway? I reminded C.J. that we know lots of boys who are married to boys.  I started naming off couples but was interrupted. “Oh, good, can you write those down so I can show Marina a list tomorrow?” C.J. asked. Was I really going to draft a list of the married same-sex couples for C.J. to take to school to prove his point?  No.  Should I have? A few weeks ago, I overheard one of my friends on the phone and could tell that her son was having an issue at school. “What’s going on?” I asked. “I didn’t want to tell you and get you all fired up….” she trailed off. “Oh, well now you have to tell me!” I said animatedly. “At school the other day, on the playground, a little boy told my son and some other kids that gay people get sick and die,” she said. “Excuse me?!?!” “I didn’t want to upset you.  I’m taking care of it,” she said calmly. “Did you talk to the principal?  Do you want me to talk to the principal?  I’ll go right there right now and explain what is happening.  What, is this first grader a medical expert who is commenting on AIDS?” “It’s all fine now,” she assured me. “Does your son think that Uncle Uncle is going to get sick and die?” I asked. “He may have, but I explained that that is not the truth,” she said. Ugh!  Where do these kids get these ideas?  From their parents.  And, why are they talking about such things on the playground?  Because they know – starting in kindergarten and first grade – that the subjects are “odd” and “weird” and “taboo” and “titillating.” But, to my kids, boys being married to boys are so commonplace that it doesn’t warrant a second thought or consideration.  It’s as “normal” as their dad and me being together. And, to my kids, gay people don’t get sick and die.  At a recent BBQ, after seeing his dad and me in swimsuits in the pool with a handful of gay men, C.J.’s Brother actually pointed out that gay men tend to be in better shape and eat healthier food than we do.  (I’ll have you know that I cut back on carbs for a day to make myself feel better.) So, yes, I’m easily excitable and, then, usually move on to a next thought just as easily.  My next thought was…what if years from now Marina wants to marry a girl?  What if that little boy on the playground is gay, but doesn’t want to get sick and die?  By teaching their children these things, have the parents done them a service or disservice?  Because, I don’t know about that boy on the playground, but I do know that, should she choose to get married, Marina would make a beautiful bride no matter her partner.  And, I hope her parents don’t ruin that for her.    Main Site Header AIDS first grade Gay Kindergarten Orange County parenting playground Queerty same-sex marriage LGBTQ Politics on the Playground  One of the things that I remember most about my maternal grandmother is that she loved to sew.  And, she was damn good at it.   Like, she could whip up a prom dress if you needed one at the last minute and she made more quilts than our family knew what to do with.  You only need so many blankets when you live in Southern California. As a child, I remember playing with her rainbow-colored, plastic-headed pins and produce-inspired pincushion.  I’d imagine that they were tiny gum balls clinging to a giant red tomato with a strawberry repelling down the side to safety. My grandmother would have let me help with the actual sewing, but it just wasn’t my thing.  Her talents, creativity and never-ending patience were lost on me; but C.J. would have loved her. My mother, Nana Grab Bags, loves to sew and her and C.J. have been spending a lot of time in her sewing room lately.  They started out using fabric glue and Stitch Witchery on their creations.  Now, they have moved on to C.J. draping fabric on himself and Nana Grab Bags pinning it.  Then, she carefully removes it and sews it just the way it had been pinned.  My son cries as if he’s been assaulted when he gets a small splinter or scrapes his knee playing outside, but if he gets poked or scratched by pins while draping and sewing he doesn’t bat an eye.  Instead, he tells me that it’s okay. My mother offers her style suggestions and they discuss design.  But, ultimately, it’s C.J. decision and Nana Grab Bags gladly obliges. C.J. recently designed his own dress.  Brace yourself, because it’s a lot to take in.  All fabric, accouterments and placement were C.J.’s decision. Some of the fabric C.J. selected because “it’s shiny and sassy and drapey.” Clearly. This ribbon reminded C.J. of fairies and fairy tales and Barbie. These fabric rosettes are super sassy fancy flowers according to C.J. He picked this iron-on patch because it reminded him of Monster High. C.J. and Nana started with Mock Smock fabric that comes smocked at the top and pre-finished at the top and bottom. C.J. paired it with pink glitter spandex leggings. Draping the fabric and pinning the flower and fringe. Nana pinning the back per his instructions. Making decisions. Nana tied the back so that it would be no-sew. Teamwork. Strike a pose. Vogue. All smiles.    All Posts Main Site Header Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Nana Nana Grab Bags Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow sewing My Son The Dressmaker  In recent years, James Woods has traded in tackling prime roles in critically-acclaimed films to gleefully play the part of a smugly menacing public nuisance on social media. He’s been called “President Obama’s biggest, most famous troll on Twitter,” and now, he’s terrorizing the family of a gender nonconforming child. — HuffPost  That gender nonconforming child is our son. We are that family. Rather than retreating and/or ignoring the barrage of hate that followed Wood’s tweet, Matt and I chose to speak to HuffPost about what we’ve experienced over the past several days. Click here for the interview. If you choose not to click through or read the entire interview, at least read the following excerpt about the support we’ve received — because it’s been amazing. People Magazine also did a short interview, click here to read it.  What kind of support have you received? Matt: We have received a lot of support from our friends and family. Anybody who knows us knows that we have an awesome support system. It goes to show that you don’t cultivate relationships with quality people for the good times. You do it for the hard times. That’s when true friends step up, support and encourage you. They remind you that you’re doing the right things for your children. I expected my friends and family to be there for us, I wasn’t expecting the outpouring of encouragement and love from the public and celebrities. Lori: This incident has shown us that the village we are lucky enough to be a part of will assemble at a moment’s notice to support and protect us. We’ve had close friends and mere acquaintances reach out to us and defend us. They offered to help us in any way they can and have made good on their offers. The LGBTQ community was also swift to be by our side. We’ve been in constant communication with the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) since the tweet. I’ve seen firsthand how quickly and powerfully HRC can mobilize to provide support, a listening ear and sound advice. It’s amazing. PFLAG has also been checking on us throughout the day and offering help. Members of the LGBTQ community who are strangers to us have offered support and encouragement.   And all of the people and organizations that have contacted us have always been – first and foremost ― concerned for our safety and wellbeing. And, then, there are the celebrities who came to our defense. When Neil Patrick Harris replied to Woods’ tweet, I was speechless. As a parent, when someone comes to your child’s defense, the positive emotion is overwhelming. With Neil being who he is and having the audience he does, that positive emotion was multiplied. We are so thankful for his tweet and support. When other celebrities started retweeting Neil’s tweet, it felt like this big, powerful, loving, supportive army had assembled in front of us and we could take a moment to catch our breath.     All Posts bullying Gay pride gender creative gender nonconforming HRC HuffPost HuffPost Queer Voices James Woods LGBTQ OC Pride Orange County parenting PFLAG Pride Matt and I Speak Out After James Woods Ruthlessly Attacks Our Son  DEAR ABBY: I am a longtime reader but a first-time writer. My problem has been bothering me for some time now. We have a grandson who is 4 and very much a “princess boy.” He likes girl toys and dresses and doesn’t like any of his boy toys. We’re at a loss about how to handle this. He’s an adorable little boy and we love him to pieces. His parents don’t accept this behavior, and I’m afraid it will affect him now and in the future. How would you handle this? We don’t say anything to his parents because they are pretty much in denial. — WORRIED GRANDMA What was Dear Abby’s reply? Read it here. * * * The high street pharmacy chain Boots has admitted it was wrong to use separate in-store signs labeling girls’ and boys’ toys after shoppers took to Twitter and Facebook to accuse the retailer of sexist behavior. In a statement posted on Facebook on Tuesday it said it was taking steps to remove the signs and that it was dismayed by customers’ reaction to the move. “It was never our intention to stereotype certain toys. It’s clear we have got this signage wrong, and we’re taking immediate steps to remove it from store.” Read the full Guardian article here. * * * Not so long ago, Toni Bias dreamed of playing in the W.N.B.A. But after starring on the girls’ junior varsity basketball team as a high school freshman, Toni came out as transgender last summer, began going by the name Tony and started transitioning to male. At the time, California had no policy governing transgender high school athletes. Already finding himself the target of bullies, who often taunt him with “he-she,” Tony feared he would have to endure even more abuse if he pushed to try out for the boys’ team. So he made a wrenching decision: he quit basketball. Read this New York Times article about the rules and regulations for transgender athletes…and learn if Tony returned to the sport he loves. * * * A Pawtucket (Rhode Island) family has organized a first-of-its-kind support group for young transgender children. Using their experiences as a family, they hope to help children navigate the challenges of growing up in the wrong body. Read more about their family and get info here.    All Posts Friday Fodder: Whoopsie, Forgot To Publish This On Friday Edition  The following excerpts are from a book that C.J. made for me at school for Mother’s Day.  The underlined portions were filled in by C.J. to complete the sentences.  I think my mom is 48 years old.  (I’ll have you all know that he overshot it by 13 years.  Notice on the illustration, he originally went with 30 something — but, upon further consideration, he made me almost 50.)  You can tell she’s a mom because she is beautiful.  (This made up for the fact that he thinks I’m nearly old enough to join AARP)  I think she learned how to be a mom by reading a book.  (This part is true.  Do you like the high heels I wear while reading?)  My mom wanted to have children because she had children.  (That pretty much sums up how it all happened.)  While I’m at school, my mom works.  (If you’ve ever wanted to see what I look like when I’m blogging, here’s a picture.)  My mom is special because she washes the dishes.  (Of all the things that could make me a special mom…..this is it.)  HAPPY MOTHER’S DAY!!!!!!!!    All Posts ha Kindergarten Mother's Day “My Mom” by C.J.  Happy 10th Birthday C.J.’s Brother!!!! It’s C.J.’s Brother’s birthday week! We started off celebrating his decade of awesomeness with a party at Dave and Buster’s – which I deemed a total and complete stress-free success…but, then again, I didn’t have to drive home five 10-year-old boys who were hopped up on sugar, hitting each other with the inflatable hammers they won gaming and telling fart jokes mingled with “your mom” insults. That was C.J.’s Dad’s job. Monday we were recovering from the party and prepping for the next day’s actual birthday. I was attempting to write a blog post on Monday night when someone sent me a Huffington Post article written by Randi Zuckerberg, sister of Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg. In the article, Zuckerberg questions the choices of mothers like me – mothers who don’t hide their gender nonconforming sons from the world; mothers who don’t prod their gender nonconforming sons to conform to make others feel more comfortable; mothers who share with their friends through social media the daily happenings of their gender nonconforming sons (who may happen to be wearing a dress on the way to the grocery store or pink shoes on the way to school). Zuckerberg thinks that mothers like me are doing a disservice to our children and that we are doing so without thinking about the consequences.  If she only knew how much I thought about my children on a daily basis. “We need to encourage our children to be individuals and to explore their passions and talents. At the same time, we do have to acknowledge that we live in the real world, not a fantasy world. Your child is inevitably going to come into contact with other kids, who can be mean and cruel — is it possible that we do our children a disservice by not preparing them for the outside world?…This might mean having a realistic discussion at a young age about why other children might not understand a young boy wearing dresses and high heels and why it’s in his best interest to limit that behavior for now. I’m not sure we’re doing them a favor by just sending them straight into the lion’s den without a warning about what’s in store,” she wrote. She supported her argument by quoting parenting guru and gender expert Kanye West. Someone may have been having an attitude because it wasn’t his birthday. The article got me so worked up that I couldn’t focus on the blog post  I had started. I turned off my laptop and spent the rest of the evening wrapping C.J.’s Brother’s birthday presents while watching Real Housewives of Orange County and stuffing leftover Easter candy into my mouth hole like it was going to expire the next day. I was getting more and more agitated. I was exchanging hurt-angry-sarcastic texts with friend, fellow pink boy mom and blogger Kelly. I was preparing for a sleepless night when an email from one of my favorite writer friends and fierce mamas landed in my inbox. The Huffington Post’s Amelia was coming to the defense of gender nonconforming mothers everywhere — even though her gay son is gender conforming.  At a time when my words were unorganized and scrambled, Amelia’s were clear, firm and perfect. Read her full rebuttal here. I think her entire post is a sample of Grade A badassery and I’m hugely thankful that she penned it.  Here are my favorite chunks. “Pink boys or gender nonconforming boys have been a popular topic of conversation these days. People who have gender-conforming children (or no children at all) are always ready to put in their two cents about what they would do…Until you are actually a parent in that situation, you don’t know what you would do…” “I am fortunate enough to call some of these moms my friends. Sarah Manley, Lori Duron and Kelly Byrom have not only stood by their children publicly but shared the sheer beauty and joy of their children in words and photographs. I can say for certain that none of these women takes sharing lightly. They are well aware of what people think and what people say, but they have made the decision to put their families out there, not for notoriety but in an effort to help other parents who are going through the same thing. Every one of them has had uncomfortable conversations with a very young child about the assholes who make fun of them for being themselves. They don’t live in a bubble. They live in the real world, and they are trying to make that world a better and safer place, not just for their kids but all kids.” “… I stand strong with the moms who post about their gender-nonconforming children. We are sisters in the same fight. We are standing up and fighting for our children’s right to be who they are. And we are fighting homophobia, because — let’s be honest — that’s really what this is all about….By not hiding who our children are and by being proud of them, we are sending them the message that they are perfect exactly the way they are.” “…I will not hide who my child is for the sake of others, because I will not teach my child to be ashamed of what makes him the amazing little man whom it is my privilege and honor to parent. Yes, there are bullies, but I will not be one of them.” C.J.’s birthday present to his brother was this picture of the two of them. C.J. is the one in the skirt. Thank you, Amelia, for writing this. And, thanks to you, Kelly and Sarah for always, always, always having my back and being there for me and my son. As Kelly has said, you mess with one of us, you mess with all of us. Thanks, ladies, for inspiring me, supporting me and being a group with which I can say the eff word much more than a good mother should. 😉    All Posts Main Site Header Amelia Gender gender nonconforming Huffington Post Kanye West Mark Zuckerberg Randi Zuckerberg Don’t Mess with Moms Like Us  Courtesy of A Game of Romance and Winchester blog. I hear from a lot of you who say that when it comes to parenting I’m doing it right.  And, I never ever hesitate to let someone know if I think that they are doing it right. Well, read this for an example of a father who is doing it wrong — if you ask me.  It starts with his son wanting a sketch pad and him calling it a “gay ass notebook.”  It gets worse from there.  Charming. * * * “Over the past few decades, we’ve made a lot of changes in the English language to make it more gender neutral. We say “police officer” instead of “policeman” and “people” instead of “mankind”…But there’s one thing we can’t seem to get right: pronouns. We know that if you say, “Every child has his monkey,” it excludes girls. So instead we might say, “Every child has their monkey,” even though it’s not grammatically correct. And “Every child has his or her monkey,” is just clunky.” When it comes to pronouns, C.J. prefers his masculine…even though when it comes to clothes and playthings, C.J. prefers his feminine. Click here to read an article on NPR’s website about some kids in Baltimore who have come up with a solution that has caught the attention of linguists.  Yo! * * * Last night I finished a book written by one of my readers and I loved it.  I’m a huge fan of LGBTQ issues and historical fiction, so her book was tailor-made for me.  Paulette Mahurin’s The Persecution of Mildred Dunlap has been dubbed Brokeback Mountain for women. “The year was filled with memorable historical events: the Dreyfus Affair divided France; Booker T. Washington gave his Atlanta address; the United States expanded the effects of the Monroe Doctrine in South America; and Oscar Wilde was tried and convicted for gross indecency under Britain’s recently passed law that made sex between males a criminal offense. When news of Wilde’s conviction went out over telegraphs worldwide, it threw a small Nevada town into chaos. This is the story of what happened when the lives of its citizens were impacted the Wilde news. It is a chronicle of hatred and prejudice with all its unintended and devastating consequences, and how love and friendship bring strength and healing.” I loved the characters.  I wanted to sit around and talk books with partners Mildred and Edra and their friends Gus and Charley.  I wanted C.J. to play with Mabel.  I despised bully Josie. Click here to download the book free for Kindle or purchase the paperback.    All Posts Gender LGBTQ parenting The Persecution of Mildred Dunlap Friday Fodder: Parenting Done Wrong Edition  It has been two weeks since I announced that I’ve penned a book inspired by my blog and that it will be released on September 3.  And, the responses, comments and emails of support have been overwhelming and much-needed.  I’m really good at brainstorming for worst-case scenarios.  I don’t even want to tell you the various things I imagined would happen after I came out as the author Lori Duron – mostly I don’t want to tell you because I’m afraid that the scenarios could still come true. I certainly wasn’t expecting to feel so much love.  Sure I felt some hate, but I’ve gotten really good at ignoring it.  I also heard from the people who continue to believe that my blog and family are a work of fiction.  That, to me, is laughable.  I wish I had time to dream up fiction!  I could do that instead of making three square-ish meals a day, doing laundry, working full-time or shuttling kids to-and-fro and back again.  Fiction must be fun!  If this were all a game, it would be a very tedious one to play – and I don’t have time for games other than Candyland, Sight Word Bingo and “Mom, can you find my sock/shoe/homework/iPad/manners”.  Wish I did; but I don’t. So, thanks to all of you who wrote to me and to those of you who found a way on your own to pre-order my book.  I want you, my readers, to be the first to know about two other important supporters of mine, because you are in very cool company. I have received support from David Burtka and Neil Patrick Harris – who have done me the enormous honor of writing the foreword for my book.  I still can’t believe it’s true. I think that David and Neil, as parents and members of the LGBTQ community, are the perfect people to introduce my book and our family to readers and the world.  When you read their foreword, you’ll get a sense of them as the awesome parents I’ve seen them to be and you’ll learn a thing or two about the always captivating Harper and Gideon.  It’s a rare opportunity for readers to get a glimpse into the lives of this new nuclear family. I’m beyond honored that David and Neil see the importance of this book for kids, parents, educators and the LGBTQ community. C.J. doesn’t know David and Neil as celebrities; he knows them only as Harper and Gideon’s dads — the ones who don’t care how gender creative he chooses to be in their presence.  He sees the four of them and sees a family; a fun, normal family that has two dads who cook their own pizzas and sometimes randomly break out in song and dance.  He can be perfectly pink in their rainbow presence.  That’s all that matters to him. I see David and Neil as a gracious couple that I will forever be indebted to.  When two guys have everything how do you thank them for doing a favor as massive as introducing you and your book to the world?  If you have any ideas, let me know. * * * Although my book’s pre-order pages are not totally complete aesthetically, they work functionally and you can now pre-order Raising My Rainbow: Adventures in Raising A Fabulous, Gender Creative Son (Foreword by Neil Patrick Harris and David Burtka).  How do you prefer it? Amazon/Kindle: http://www.amazon.com/Raising-My-Rainbow-Adventures-Fabulous/dp/0770437729/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1367189013&sr=1-1&keywords=raising+my+rainbow Barnes and Noble/NOOK:  http://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/raising-my-rainbow-lori-duron/1114194385?ean=9780770437725 Google Play: http://books.google.com/books/about/Raising_My_Rainbow.html?id=pLKMlwEACAAJ Indiebound: http://www.indiebound.org/book/9780770437725 iTunes: https://itunes.apple.com/us/book/raising-my-rainbow/id629693750?mt=11    All Posts Main Site Header David Burtka gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Neil Patrick Harris Raising My Rainbow David Burtka & Neil Patrick Harris Present Raising My Rainbow  C.J. loves Todd Parr’s book It’s Okay to Be Different.  C.J. also loves playing on my iPad (which he calls “his iPad,” much to the annoyance of his brother).  So, imagine how much he loves the new It’s Okay to Be Different app. “The team at Storypanda Books worked with Parr’s publisher Little, Brown Books for Young Readers to add a layer of interactivity to this beloved title. The ability to select different characters, clothing, and props on each page means kids can customize the book to match their own life experiences. In doing so, the message feels more personal to each and every child allowing them to identify closely with certain instances where they may have felt ‘different.’”  Download the app here:  (https://itunes.apple.com/ca/app/id521512463). * * * People in the Spokane area of Washington, listen up!  I’ve been contacted by a licensed mental health counselor and a mother of a seven-year-old transgender child.  They have formed a playgroup open to all gender nonconforming and transgender children up to the age of 13. It provides children with a supportive and positive space where they can socialize with other children expressing comparable ranges of gender fluidity.  It is designed to run concurrently with the parents’ group and conveniently allows parents the opportunity to meet while their children are having supervised fun in the same building.  Both groups are supervised by licensed mental health therapists and the playgroup has young adult mentors who identify along the gender spectrum. There is no charge for either group. For more information, send an email to transgendercare@live.com. * * * Don’t live near Spokane, WA?  Instead, you live near St. Louis in Missouri?  You should check out TransParent, a St. Louis-based organization dedicated to providing compassionate support and resources to parents and caregivers raising a gender independent child.  TransParent provides support, information and resources to help parents confidently navigate their gender independent child’s personal journey of self-discovery to authentic living.  If you are raising a gender independent or transgender child but don’t live in the St. Louis area, you should check out their website, which has some useful resources. http://www.transparentstl.org    All Posts Gender gender independent gender nonconforming It's Okay To Be Different Todd Parr transgender Friday Fodder: It’s Okay To Be Different Edition  “Mommy!” C.J. yelled as he entered my bedroom with his usual flourish.  He was freshly bathed and in his fleece Monster High pajamas.  I was lounging on my bed reading People Magazine, when I should have been doing the laundry. “Yes….how may I help you?” I asked, not looking up from my reading. “Where’s your wedding dress?” “In the garage.  Why?” I said, setting my magazine down. “Can I have it?” Now, when I married C.J.’s Dad in 2000, the absolute last thing I wanted to wear was my mother’s wedding dress from the 1960s — with its Victorian neckline, poufy shoulders and long tight sleeves made of lace with a daisy design. My mother didn’t want me to wear her dress either.  Thankfully.  Under the watchful eye of my brother and his then-boyfriend, I selected my wedding dress and promised myself that I would not keep it for the daughter that I might have.  No way.  No how. But, after the wedding and honeymoon were over I didn’t have the heart to trash my dress.  And, I couldn’t bear to donate it either.  I also didn’t want to pay the $200 fee to have it dry-cleaned and professionally preserved.  So I put it in big plastic storage bin and put it in the garage.  I’d deal with it later. Then I got pregnant and the thought crossed my mind that we might have a girl and she might want to at least see and try on my dress.  I decided to keep it awhile longer.  We had a boy.  Then I got pregnant again.  It might be a girl.  It wasn’t.  There was officially no need for me to keep my wedding dress. Two years ago we had a neighborhood garage sale and I half-heartedly hung it out for the highest bidder.  Nobody wanted it — which made me kind of sad.  But, then again, I didn’t really want it either.  I thought about selling it on eBay or Craigslist, but that seemed like such a process.  If you know me, you know that I hate a process.  We had another garage sale a year later.  Still, nobody wanted my dress.  It continues to sit — ripped and dirty — in the big plastic bin in the farthest corner of our garage waiting for me to decide what to do with it. “Sooooo…can I have it?  Please say yes, please say yes,” C.J. asked again, bouncing up and down. My heart and brain skipped a beat.  Somebody wanted my wedding dress! “Yes.  You can.” “Can I have it right now?” he asked. “No, but when you are a little bit older, you can have it.  I promise.” “Yay!!!!”  He skipped out of the room. I pictured my son trying on my wedding dress in the years to come.  I’d surprise him and show him my tiara and veil as well.  He would look beautiful in it.  More importantly, he would feel beautiful in it.  I pictured him, sometime later, deconstructing the dress and making an entirely new garment or two out of it.  I smiled a big smile at the thought. My son wants my wedding dress and he can do anything he wants with it.  Wear it, cut it, rip it, whatever.  I’m glad that I didn’t purge the dress before I had kids.  I’m glad that I resisted the urge once I had only boys.  Because my boy loves fashion, lace, beading and all things princess-like.  And, he wants my dress and he’s going to love it.    Main Site Header Fashion gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Wedding Dress Passing My Wedding Dress On To My Son  It’s time for me to come out.  My name is Lori and for nearly two and a half years now you’ve known me as the blogger C.J.’s Mom.  And, now I’m an author.  Or, I will be on September 3, 2013. I’m coming out in a big way and you, my loyal readers, have had a hand in it. You shared my writings with people through social media, emails, conversations and, sometimes, during whispered interactions when you knew the other person would benefit from reading about my sparkly son.  Because of your support I caught the attention of some pretty important people.  Now, in less than five months, I’ll be sharing our lives with a broader audience when the Random House’s Broadway imprint releases Raising My Rainbow — my book based on my blog. It was with a massive amount of thought and consideration that I agreed to write the book.  Should we risk our anonymity?  In doing so, would we risk our safety?  Did I even have the time to write a book while maintaining my career, our home and our children’s sense of normalcy?  Did I want to be the face of a cause?   What would C.J. and his brother Chase think of the book now?  What would they think of it in 10 years?  20 years? In the end, C.J.’s Dad Matt and I were and continue to be certain that a book like Raising My Rainbow is needed to encourage the world to change for the sake of gender nonconforming and LGBTQ kids.  We have to try.  We have to try educating as many people as we can about children like C.J. so that hopefully, growing up and thriving from childhood to adolescence and beyond is the least painful experience possible. The book is a lot like the blog.  It gives people a glimpse into our lives in hopes that they will see that we are not weird – we are just different.  And, different isn’t bad.  Different can and does happen to anybody.  Your neighbor.  Your coworker.  Your friend.  Your enemy.  You. The book is about expectations.  You don’t always get what you expect when you are expecting.  When your child is born you expect that their sex and gender will align.  Sometimes they don’t.  You expect that your male child will like traditionally male things and that he’ll be physically and emotionally attracted to a woman.  Sometimes that doesn’t happen.  There is comfort found in expectations, but when those expectations are squashed when your child is three, four or five years old you start to question why they exist at all.  You build new expectations and try not to be jaded when people around you hold tight to the old ones. The book is about empathy.  It took us a while to realize that what we want most from other people is empathy.  You don’t have to fully understand gender, sex and sexuality; we just ask that you have an open heart and an open mind.  Imagine for a minute what our child and we have to go through on a daily basis.  What would you do if you had a child like C.J.?  Judge less and imagine more.  Treat others how you want to be treated.  Period. The book is about the evolution of a family.  When our son grabbed that first Barbie, we set out on a journey of evolution – though we didn’t know it at first.  The evolution was slow and, at times, didn’t feel like it was moving forward or felt like we were fighting it.  But, it happened; no one in our family is the same person that they were three years ago.  Now, I wouldn’t change this experience for anything in the world.  I couldn’t always say that. Finally, the book is about equality.  There’s a new civil right movement happening in our country.  It astonishes me that in 2013 we need a civil rights movement at all.  It should be a given that all people are created equal and should be treated as such – whether it’s on the playground or in the nation’s capitol.  The book is my way of taking a firm stand in the movement.  It is my way of publicly saying that my son and brother deserve the same human rights and human decency taken for granted by the majority of the country’s population.  I want my son to be treated like a human being.  If you can’t tell if he is a boy or a girl, then just treat him like a person. As I move toward September 3 with excitement and fear, I hope that you will accompany me.  You will never know how much you mean to my family and me.  You all have taught me the difference between sex and gender; you have taught me how to parent an LGBTQ child; you have taught me how to get lipgloss out of my son’s hair when one particular makeover went awry; and the list goes on and on. The blog will continue to exist as an outlet for me.  Will I only be Lori now?  No, I’m also C.J.’s Mom.  Which names will I use?  I’m not sure.  I have to see what feels comfortable. Will there be identifying photos of our family on the blog now?  Nope.  I’ll continue to amaze you with my nondescript iPhone photography skills.  Will I keep you updated on book news from now on?  You betcha. For us, life continues to be an adventure.  I’m glad that you are along for the ride.  I hope that you continue to be.  Wish me luck and buy my book and thank you, thank you, thank you for being such a rad blogosphere family. xoxo, Lori Duron/C.J’s Mom/Blogger/Author/Candlestick Maker    Main Site Header Barbie effeminate Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Random House I Wrote a Book  Montreal Family Looking to Connect I’ve been contacted by a family in Montreal that is raising a young transgender daughter (assigned male at birth) and looking to connect with other families of young transgender children in the Montreal area.  They are also part of a monthly support/action-oriented gender group that welcomes new members. The family and the group are looking for other resources in the area, as well.  If you fit the bill, send me an email at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com and I’ll get you connected. * * *  Families with Gifted GLBTQ Youth Webinar Date: May 14, 2013  // Time: 7:30 p.m. EDT  // Presenter: Terry Friedrichs, PhD, EdD Gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (GLBTQ) youth experience much higher-than-average rates of verbal and physical harassment, parental rejection, and suicide. However, these students also have great potential for academic success, as seen by their disproportionately-high representation in programs for the gifted. This session explains how parents, siblings, and teachers can build on these students’ potential and can diminish the effect of others’ harm.  The cost is $40. Click here to register or get more info.   * * * Registration Now Open For Gender Spectrum’s Professional Workshop Join Gender Spectrum for a full day of learning and professional growth at the 2013 Gender Spectrum Professional’s Workshop on July 12, 2013, in Berkeley, CA. This workshop is a special gathering for professional service providers–therapists, physicians, attorneys, educators, faith leaders, youth advocates, and others–who work with (or would like to work with) gender nonconforming and transgender children and teens, and the adults who support them.  Building on the success of previous years, the 2013 event will offer a wider range of sessions than ever before. Click here to register or learn more.      All Posts Gender gender nonconforming Gender Spectrum LGBTQ Saturday Fodder: I’ve Been Off My Blogging Game This Week Edition  This is what the book looks like. We have discovered another great book for/about gender creative kids.  C.J. really, really, really loves this one.  Seriously, it’s one of his new favorites.  He would like you to know that the book “rhymes really great” and has “pretty collage pictures” and it’s “about a boy who likes girl stuff.” Roland Humphrey is Wearing a WHAT? by Eileen Kiernan-Johnson is a new children’s picture book about a boy’s quest to be his authentic pink and sparkly self in a world that is often inhospitable to boys who don’t conform to strict gender norms around boys dress and play.  Roland is sad and confused when the kids at school tell him that he can’t like “girl colors.” It’s a tale that finds Roland as confused about the rules as those around him are about what he wears. In a humorous journey that raises questions about what is normal and why, Roland Humphrey is a gorgeously illustrated book that will open the minds and hearts to accept and cherish the Roland Humphreys of the world. How come it’s okay for girls to dress like boys, but not for boys to dress like girls? Roland Humphrey is a fictional version of a real boy; a boy having a happy childhood that doesn’t fit into a conventional box of what others may expect of a boy. He’s not constrained by what he wears, what colors he likes or how he plays with other kids. Watching a beautiful child grow up, we are seeing how our Roland Humphrey is running into other people’s expectations of how he should behave. Roland decides not be scared of what other people will think about him. Author Eileen Kiernan-Johnson has been kind enough to offer the book to Raising My Rainbow readers for $10.99 and ship it for free.  To get this offer:  Send an email to rolandhumphreybook@gmail.com Put RAISING MY RAINBOW in the subject line In the body of the email, indicate how many copies if the book you want The author will generate a PayPal request for payment from there Easy peasy cheddar cheesy (as C.J. would say)     All Posts bullying Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Raising My Rainbow Roland Humphrey Saturday Fodder: Roland Humphrey Edition  Just a boy and his two best girl friends marching at Pride. “That was one of the best days of my life. Thank you so much for taking me,” C.J. said as Matt tucked him into bed for the night. Most kids say that to their parents after a day at an amusement park. Not our kid. He said it after we took him to his first Pride. On Wednesday, we told C.J. that we were taking him to the local Pride on Saturday. His level of excitement was unprecedented. He’d seen pictures of Pride and, with all the visual rainbow-ness, he’d been asking to go for the last year. I told him that we needed to make signs. We did need signs, but mostly it was a project to keep him busy for a few summer hours. C.J’s sign Matt’s sign My sign The night before Pride, C.J. laid out his outfit. He woke up at the crack of dawn the next day to get ready. And, even though we didn’t plan to leave the house until 10:15 a.m., he started contouring his face at 8 a.m. We arrived before the parade got started and, admittedly, the vibe wasn’t initially all rainbows and glitter. The parade got a late start and, from where we were sitting, C.J. couldn’t see the festival area I told him about. He was a little worried that he’d gotten his Pride hopes up too high. He watched the parade pass by. As with all new things, he observed quietly before letting himself go and clapping and jumping for the goodies being thrown by the parade participants. As the parade ended, we followed it to the festival. “I loved the parade. I wish it was longer. And next year I want to be in it for sure. Who knows, I may even be in drag in the parade next year,” C.J. said as we walked. The festival was everything C.J. hoped it would be and then some. There were free things, candy, games and contests. He also noticed that there were a lot of condoms. C.J. was also a big hit at the festival. Hula hooping to earn a bag of candy from Kimpton Hotels. “People kept stopping me saying ‘always be who you are. Never change. You’re so awesome.’ And, I took so many pictures with people,” he said smiling. My sweet, fabulous, rainbow boy has never received so many compliments. He’s used to getting stares and whispers when we’re out in public. He’s not used to getting the smiles, hugs and encouragement he received at Pride. The cotton candy lady hooked him up with rainbow cotton candy bigger than his head sprinkled with edible gold glitter. When it was time to go, he didn’t want to leave and offered to stay at Pride by himself. He said he would ride home in a taxi. We said no. We stopped to eat on the way to our car and I asked C.J. what he liked best about Pride. “I liked the vibe. I liked all the colors. But, most of all, I liked all of the people. Nobody judges anybody. You can just be who you want to be. There should be Pride every week, because it’s so much fun,” he explained.     All Posts Gay pride gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ OC Pride Orange County parenting Pride raising a gay child transgender My Gender Creative Son’s First Pride  Last week, C.J. had to have a small dental procedure done that required him to go under anesthesia.  Of course his dad and I were a nervous wreck the weeks and days leading up to the morning of the 7 a.m. appointment. Mural from the dentist’s office… The night before, we fed C.J. a big dinner and dessert because he wouldn’t be able to eat for at least 15 hours.  We gave him a bath with Strawberry Shortcake bubble bath and tucked him into bed wearing his favorite Disney Princess nightgown. My alarm went off extra early in the morning.  I turned it off and rolled over to wake up C.J.’s Dad.  He was staring at me with big, bright eyes that startled me. “What?!” I said/asked/gasped. “I had the worst dream last night,” he said. “What was it about?” “I had a dream that when C.J. woke up from the anesthesia he liked boy stuff.  That he was gender conforming.” “Why is that a bad dream?” I asked.  It seemed like a weird dream, but not a “bad” one.  He explained. “Because that’s not my boy.  My boy likes girl stuff.  In my dream, we went to the dentist and I was holding him and they gave him the shot and he went under. We waited for like an hour and a half and they came out to tell us that he was coming to and we went back to be with him.  We walked in and he was coming out of it and he said ‘Hey Dad, what’s up?’  He said it just like his brother says it.  I was stroking his head and he looked down and saw that he was wearing his Disney Princess nightgown and he asked ‘Why did you dress me in this?  Why am I wearing this?’  He was really mad. I told him that he was wearing it because it was his favorite nightgown and he kept getting more and more fired up.   He wanted another shirt.  He wanted a boy’s shirt.  He was pissed off and didn’t even want to ride home with the nightgown on. He totally wasn’t himself.  His mannerisms were all boy, like his brother. I kept asking you and the dentist if he was okay, if he was fine.  The dentist told me that the procedure was a total success.  I said that it wasn’t, that he was totally different.  I got upset because something was wrong.  He was not acting like himself.  And you and the dentist were downplaying it. ‘What’s wrong with him?! What’s wrong with him?!’ I started yelling.  And, you asked if I was happy because the anesthesia got him out of his gender nonconforming phase and that he was normal now.  I grabbed you and said ‘he’s not effing normal now, not like this!’ I was so pissed because people kept saying that now he was normal and fine.  I yelled at the dentist, ‘What did you do to my effing kid!?’ and everybody was looking at me like I was crazy.  You and the dentist kept saying that I should be happy that he liked boy stuff now.  But I was yelling and so pissed off asking what they had done to my son. It wasn’t him.  He had changed.  To me that wasn’t ‘normal.’  C.J. is normal the way he is. What does that even mean?  ‘Normal?’  That’s not my kid, that’s not my boy.  My boy likes girl stuff.  That’s his normal.  My boy likes girl toys and girl clothes and saying things like ‘Ohhhhh, heeeeeeyyyyyyy’ and ‘Drama-bomb!’   I don’t know what I would do now if he changed and started liking boy stuff.  I love him the way he is.  I don’t want him to change.” He finished telling me about his dream and we stared at each other. “Oh, baby, it’s going to be fine.  He’s not going to change,” I said.  What if my husband was clairvoyant?  What if the anesthesia was going to make our gender nonconforming boy conform?  I couldn’t bear to think about him changing either. Three hours later C.J. woke up from the anesthesia.  He got upset when the dentist gave him a “boy’s toothbrush” instead of a “girl’s toothbrush.”  When we got home he gathered his Barbie dolls and Monster High girls to comfort him as he watched old episodes of iCarly on the iPad. He was and still is gender nonconforming.  The anesthesia didn’t change him.  My husband is not a clairvoyant.  For all of those things, and so much more, I am a very thankful mama.   There was a time when all we wanted was for C.J. to conform to traditional gender norms.  Now, the thought of him doing so doesn’t feel right.  It feels disturbing.  It feels like a bad dream.    All Posts Main Site Header anesthesia Bad Dream C.J.'s Dad Dentist Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Nightmare Orange County parenting A Father’s Nightmare  As I’ve written over the years, birthdays can be tricky when the birthday boy/girl is gender creative.  Take C.J.’s last birthday for example; he had a Valentine’s-Day-themed-crafty-dress-up-party, wore a pink tutu and tiara and had nothing but “girl stuff” on his wish list. My annual struggle always shows up right on time.  Do I warn parents that my son will be presenting as a girl?  Do I inform gift givers that he doesn’t like “boy toys?”  You’d think I’d have the answers by now.  But, I don’t. I’ve talked with enough moms of gender creative kids to know that these are issues that most of us have stressed over and try to handle as delicately and directly as possible.  I’ve often wondered what’s the best way to handle these birthday party dilemmas?  Then, C.J. received an invitation to his friend T.L.’s Arabian Nights themed eighth birthday party.  T.L. is gender nonconforming too. When C.J. learned that he had mail, he hopped up and down trying to peek inside the mailbox.  When he learned that it was an invitation to a party, he ripped the envelope and yanked out the invite.  When he saw that the party invitation was decorated with colorful feathers and rhinestones he nearly lost his mind.  He squealed, held the invitation tight to his heart, closed his eyes and smiled as he ran in place. When I finally pried the invite out of his hands to read for myself, it was my turn to be over-the-top happy.  All because of this disclaimer that T.L.’s Mom had included at the bottom.    A Quick Note to Our New Friends: For those of you who have not yet had the pleasure to really get to know our fabulous T.L., he likes things that might traditionally be considered just for girls.  When shopping for a gift anything that you would normally get for an eight year old girl, T.L  will love!  Oh yeah, and if you’re not comfortable with an eight year old boy in a dress…you might want to sit this one out.  🙂  I immediately texted T.L.’s mom to RSVP and tell her what a fierce mama she is.  Later that night, when I showed the invite to C.J.’s Dad he made me text T.L.’s Mom again to let her know that he thinks that she’s pretty rockin’ awesome too. In houses around town I pictured T.L.’s classmates getting the same invitation.  I pictured other parents reading the disclaimer and having a range of emotions.  I hope that some of them realized how brave T.L. and his Mom are.  It’s easy to see that they are fabulous.  Their bravery is less flashy but deserves the most credit.    All Posts Arabian Nights Birthday gender creative gender nonconforming Orange County T.L. You Might Want To Sit This One Out…  If you live in Southern California…a producer from CBS2/KCAL9 news in L.A. has contacted me looking for families to participate in a story about families raising a gender fluid child. Please email me at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com if you fit the bill, are willing to be interviewed on camera and/or want to learn more. * * * If you live in Los Angeles…The new site Spectrum Los Angeles is your online guide to LGBTQ L.A.  On Spectrum you’ll find feature stories about LGBTQ organizations, profiles of interesting LGBTQ folks and information about upcoming community events. For regular updates from Spectrum, you can connect with the site on  Facebook and Twitter! * * * If you live in the Philadelphia area…you should check out the Creating Safe and Welcoming Schools Conference at Arcadia University on March 22 from 8 to 3 p.m.  It will be beneficial for educators, Gay Straight Alliance members and parents raising gender nonconforming/LGBTQ kids.  For more information and to register go to: www.arcadia.edu/safeandwelcomingschools.    All Posts CBS Los Angeles Spectrum Los Angeles Welcoming Schools Friday Fodder: If You Live In…Edition  C.J.’s Brother was invited to a laser tag birthday party at the local open-air mall.  It was a Friday night and I left C.J. at home with his dad to take C.J.’s Brother to the party and hang out — just the two of us. Centerpiece by C.J. (All photos on this page are not at all related to the words on this page.  Sorry.) We arrived early and walked around the center. It was dark and there were strands of white lights strung high above our heads as a live band played in the crisp air.  CJ’s Brother walked with his hands in his pockets because he thinks it makes him look like a teenager.  Every once in a while he would hold my hand…forgetting that he was trying to look cool. We were window shopping when he stopped in front of a jewelry store to look at the displays. “Are you looking for some diamonds to buy for your mom?” I said teasingly, putting my hand on his shoulder. “No, I’m looking for an engagement ring,” he said. “You are way too young to get engaged, sir.” “I know. I’m looking for later, to see what I might want to buy when I want to get engaged, so I can start saving. How much do I have to save anyway?  Like a couple hundred dollars?” Sweet N Low sack dress by C.J. “A couple thousand dollars,” I said. His jaw dropped. “I really better start saving I guess,” he said. “I don’t want you to get married. I want you to stay my baby forever,” I said hugging him from behind. “Don’t you want grandchildren?” he asked. “No,” I said. He pulled out of my embrace and spun to look at me. “That is so mean. How can you not want grandchildren?” His feelings were hurt.  Crap.  I struggled to explain. “Here’s the deal, baby. I don’t expect grandchildren. I don’t need grandchildren to make me happy. I want you to be happy. If having kids makes you happy then I’m happy. But, I really try not to project my expectations on you.” It was going over his head a little.  After all, he is only nine years old. My history was interfering with my present, as it tends to do.  My mom wanted grandchildren her entire life. If she could have had grandchildren without having children she probably would have.  I knew it.  My brother knew. It was one of the hardest things for her to deal with when he came out.  She had to mourn the loss of the grandchildren he’d never give her. I’ve watched it happen over and over at PFLAG.  People look forward to grandchildren and when their child comes out of the closet they assume that they won’t have grandchildren and it hurts.  I can understand that. So I decided long ago that I wasn’t going to look forward to grandchildren until they were nine months away from appearing. I wasn’t going to count on a future generation for even a fraction of happiness. I was going to spend my energy making the generation that I was responsible for happy. I thought I was doing the right thing. I thought that I was doing us all a favor — until it hurt my son’s feelings. Runway walk by C.J. “If you have a child I will love it with all of my heart because it will be half you and you are one of my top three favorite people in the world. I think that you are amazing. I just want you to know that you don’t have to give me grandkids to make me happy. You make me happy all on your own,” I told C.J.’s Brother. “Okay,” he said skeptically. I felt like a turd. My brother and C.J. have taught me that you don’t always get what you expect when you are expecting.  And that can mess with your head and heart. So I try to let go of expectations and not to expect things or people to conform.  But, every once in a while my oldest, gender conforming boy wants me to expect the norm. I walked him into the laser tag building and watched him play with his friends and, for a moment, thought about my grandkids.    All Posts Main Site Header I Don’t Expect To Be A Grandmother  From the “What’s Happening To Me” book that my mom gave to me and my brother. I was in fifth grade.  I boarded the school bus and a sixth grade girl asked me if I was virgin. “No,” I said giving her a dirty look and finding a seat.  That sounded like a terrible thing to be. “Yes you are.  Virgin!” she said rudely. I ignored her.  After dinner I told my mom that a girl at school called me a virgin.  She took a deep breath. “Well, honey, you are one.”  And, right then and there, I got the sex talk.  I walked to my bed with slumped shoulders and cried myself to sleep.  Men’s penises get hard and they stick them in women’s vaginas.  Someday a man was going to stick his penis in my vagina.  What a nightmare. The next day my mom left a book about puberty and sex on my bed.  I was grossed out and humiliated. Our oldest son is getting ready to turn 10.  He’s been asking some questions that have us feeling like the first of many puberty and sex talks may be coming in the year ahead.  Which got me thinking. One big, fat sperm chilling out…waiting for an erection. I can’t remember the first time that I assumed it because I’ve assumed it for so many years now.  I’ve always assumed that, because we have two boys, my husband would take on the brunt of the responsibility when it comes to detailed discussions of puberty and sex.  We’d be absolutely open and honest about puberty and sex discuss them freely as needed, but certain discussions are heavy – C.J.’s Dad would lift those.  If we had had girls, it would have been my job. “Who gives the boys the sex talk?” I asked C.J.’s Dad out of the blue – like I ask most questions. “I do,” he said without hesitation. “What if one of them is gay?” I asked. “I don’t know.  I’ve never thought about that.”  He paused.  And, paused.  And, paused.  “I have to admit, you’re blowing my mind a little right now,” he answered honestly. This, my friends, is what a wet dream looks like. It’s the same for our close friends with kids; the same-sex parent does the majority of the puberty and sex talking.  And, the majority of the sex talking involves the details of heterosexual sex.  Mine did – rightly so.  My brother’s did – epic fail. The puberty and sex talks seem to be all about procreation, not about having sex because it’s enjoyable or because it’s what you do in a committed relationship or to bond with your partner.  And, if you’re talking about procreation, you’re talking about a man and a woman.  The sex talk needs to be different for gay children, right? “Say C.J. is gay…I guess we give him both sex talks,” C.J.’s Dad said after a while. “So, if his brother is straight, are you going to give him both sex talks?” I asked.  “That only seems fair.” “Ugh!  My parents didn’t even have any puberty or sex talks with me.  I figured it out on my own.  Can’t they just do that?” C.J.’s Dad asked entirely frustrated. “No!  They need to know about safe sex and being responsible and respectful and all that crap,” I argued. This poor lad has been caught in the act. To be honest, if one of my son’s is gay, it just seems like I should be the one to give the sex talks.  I don’t know why.  But I think that we need to be careful with both of the boys that as we start to discuss these things we are mindful not to make assumptions about their sexuality.  No stigma.  No shame.  No secrets. But we still have to educate them about STDAware tests for chlamydia everything else more unpleasant. Thankfully we have plenty of time to think about it.  Because, as with so many things about raising kids in general and raising a gender nonconforming child in particular, we have no idea what we are doing. * * * Disclaimer: I know that not all households have a father and mother present.  If I were the only parent/primary caregiver in our home, I would give the sex talk to both boys (or both girls, if we had them.  Or, to any number of children in any combination of sex/gender).  C.J.’s Dad and I realize that our assumptions hadn’t been based on a lot of thought.  We assumed them; we didn’t think about them prior to getting inspired to write this post.       Main Site Header Gay Gender heterosexual homosexual procreation puberty sex sex talk Which Straight Parent Gives Sex Talk To Gay Child?  When adults are overly concerned about which toilet a six-year-old pees into, there’s a problem. With the adults. Not the child. This week a transgender rights group announced that it has filed a discrimination complaint in Colorado on behalf of a first-grader who was born a boy but identifies and presents as a girl. The girl is recognized by the state as a female and has attended elementary school only as a female. She has always used the girls’ restrooms, until this December when she was told that she had to use either the boys’ bathroom or the unisex bathroom in the school office. I’ve been asked to comment about the legal and civil rights that the little girl has or doesn’t have. I can’t. I don’t live in her state or know her laws. But, I can tell you that I’m sure there are bigger issues in Colorado and the country than where the little girl goes to wash her hands and powder her nose. Adults, the school, the district and the state should focus on those issues and on trying to make this world a better place for everybody, instead of making it a worse place for a first-grader. If you ask me, the school administrators aren’t thinking about their student’s educational, mental or emotional health – they are thinking about her genitalia.  And, that’s disturbing.  http://www.cnn.com/2013/02/27/us/colorado-transgender-girl-school/index.html * * * These frat boys at Emerson College helped to restore some of my faith in humanity this week, when they announced that they were raising money to fund “top surgery” for one of their members who is transgender and recently had the surgery declined by his insurance company. “Phi Alpha Tau members, defying the conventional stereotype of a fraternity, launched a campaign on an online fundraising site — Indiegogo.com — with a goal of collecting the $8,100 needed for the procedure, scheduled for May.” They raised more than $16,000.  http://www.cnn.com/2013/02/27/us/massachusetts-fraternity-sex-change/index.html * * * Who wants to go to the 2013 Gender Spectrum Conference in Berkeley, CA, this July? I do, I do! Registration opened this week. Click here to learn more and sign up. The Gender Spectrum Conference is a special weekend where you can: • Meet other parents and caregivers at various points in their journeys of raising gender nonconforming and transgender children and teens • Offer your gender nonconforming or transgender child (ages 5 and up) the gift of meeting other children in similar circumstances • Attend over 40 workshops for adults around relevant topics in the fields of medicine, mental health, education, the law, social issues, and more • Explore issues specifically focused on children who are gender creative but do not identify as transgender • Schedule one-on-one time at our Family Support Center with experienced professionals in the areas of medicine, mental health, the law and spiritual guidance * * * Who wants to be on TV? I’ve been contacted by an award-winning production company and a top-rated national cable network that are casting for a new reality series that will explore unique perspectives on parenting. They are eager to include a gender nonconforming family. Click here to learn more.    All Posts CNN Colorado Emerson College Punched In The Head transgender Friday Fodder: When adults are overly concerned about which toilet a six-year-old pees into, there’s a problem  Since my invitations to the Oscars and the evening’s multiple fancy parties seemed to have gotten lost in the mail, I decided to watch the Oscars with Nana Grab Bags at her house.  I took C.J. with me and Nana Grab Bags bought a few crafts for him to do with Pa while we watched the festivities. From Oscars.com C.J. was not interested in the crafts; he was interested in the red carpet and the show.  It all started when he caught a glimpse of Kristin Chenoweth interviewing people. “Is that the girl from Dance Moms?” he asked. “No, it’s not Chloe,” I said laughing. “Is that a girl or a lady?” he asked dumbfounded. “It’s a lady.” “A real lady?” “Yes, a real lady.  She’s older than me,” I said, mostly because I like to point out when people are older than me.  It makes me feel full of youth and vigor. “She’s a little real lady with a little girl voice?” he asked still confused. “Yeah.  You should hear her sing, you would love it.” “Who’s that?!  I want her hair!” “Jessica Chastain,” I said.  Her and C.J. have similar color hair. “I’m going to grow my hair out like that,” he decided. “Okay.”  This was a different Oscar viewing experience than I was used to.  Nana Grab Bags is pretty quiet when we watch together.  C.J. is not. From Oscars.com There was Jane Fonda is a shocking yellow dress that I didn’t particularly care for. “Oh, that’s a fun color yellow!” C.J. said.  My son has a thing for colors that pop. Then, along came Quvenzhané Wallis with her puppy purse. “If I ever went to the night when everybody dresses fancy, I would totally have that purse!”  He was now referring to the Oscars as “the night when everybody dresses fancy.”  Strange, because I was in sweats. “Is Uncle Uncle going to be on this show?” he asked out of the blue, stealing kettle corn from my bowl. “He wishes,” I said with a snort. “But, it’s by his house.  He didn’t get invited?” “Nope.” Then, came C.J.’s favorite dress of the night, which really confused me because it wasn’t flashy, showy, sparkly or poufy.  C.J.’s favorite dress was the one worn by Jamie Foxx’s daughter, even though (as he commented) “it was a little inappropriate around her belly.” “Oh.  Em.  Gee.  Mama, that lady is wearing tennis shoes!” “She made Bradley Cooper, so she can wear whatever shoes she wants,” I said. From Oscars.com Then, he saw Halle Berry’s dress and was in shock. “That dress is totally inappropriate.  You can almost see her boobs.  That was not a smart choice.”  C.J. has been working on making smart choices for more than a year now.  According to C.J., Halle Berry’s dress choice was not smart. “Ohhhhh, now that’s my favorite dress!” he said when he saw Anne Hathaway. “I like it because it is pink, but I wish her hair was long like yours mama,” he said smiling up at me and stealing my iced tea.  If I cut my hair, I’d break his heart. “Mama, what dress is your favorite?” “Stacy Keibler’s.” From Oscars.com “No, it’s not that fun,” he said shaking his head. The show eventually started and soon Charlize Theron was dancing across the stage (though my eyes were on Channing Tatum). “If she’s going to dance like that, she really should be singing,” C.J. said with his right leg crossed over his left and his arms folded. Seth McFarlane started singing a song about boobs, which elicited giggles from C.J. Jennifer Aniston appeared on stage in a vivid red dress to present an award. “Wow, there are a lot of ladies looking sexy tonight!” C.J. exclaimed. “There sure are,” Nana Grab Bags said in agreeance.  I gave them both a look and she just smiled at me and shrugged her shoulders like she couldn’t possibly disagree with him because he was speaking the truth. Brave won for Best Animated Film, which was disappointing to C.J. because he was voting for Wreck It Ralph.  Then, he saw Director Mark Andrews get up from his seat to accept the Oscar.  Andrews was wearing a kilt. “Look at his skirt!  Look at his skirt!” he pointed bouncing up and down on the couch. “Wow.  That’s a nice skirt!” I admired. “Is he gender nonconforming?” “I don’t know, but I like his style.”  I said. “Me too, I think he looks the prettiest.  When I get invited to the night when everybody dresses fancy I’m gonna wear that man’s skirt and that little girl’s dog purse.  And, have red hair like that one lady.” There, it’s all settled; C.J. has selected his Oscar outfit.  Now he just needs an invite.    All Posts Main Site Header Brave gender nonconforming Oscars Queerty Raising My Rainbow C.J.’s First Oscars  Yesterday, in celebration of the 100th day of school, C.J. had to make his bucket list.  I thought that you might enjoy it. By the time I am 100 years old, I hope I… Throw lots of sassy parties Visit somebody in Australia Make lots of pretty crafts Make lots of funny jokes Drink tea * * * Trapped in the Wrong Body: Growing Up Transgender On Tuesday, February 26, on Katie Couric’s show Katie, “you’ll hear the deeply personal stories of three transgender children and their parents, and their journeys to understand the psychological, physical, and social process to become their authentic selves…Katie will explore how medical advances are being used earlier and more safely to change the biological process of puberty…” Click here to learn more here. * * * 2013 Parents Magazine Blog Awards Raising My Rainbow has been selected as a finalist in the 2013 Parents Blog Awards in the category of “Most Likely to Inspire You to Change the World.”  There are only a few days left to vote.  Then I’ll quite bugging you about this. Voting is super simple.  Just click here and select my blog under the “Most Likely to Inspire You to Change the World” category.  You can vote once a day until Feb. 24. Don’t want people on your feed to know that you voted? Click the “Vote” button, on the next screen click on the silhouette people near the bottom of the page, choose the “custom” option and click on “Only Me,” save the change and hit “Share.”  Or, share it to your wall, then go to your wall and delete the post by clicking on the “x” next to the post.  I won’t be offended.  Swearsies.    All Posts Bucket List Katie Couric Parents Magazine Friday Fodder: C.J.’s Bucket List Edition  Since starting my blog about raising a gender nonconforming child more than two years ago, I’ve been contacted by countless families who have found themselves in a parenting situation similar to mine.  The families that reach out to me are most often looking for camaraderie, resources, advice and/or to be connected with other gender nonconforming families in their area. Recently, I’ve noticed something else that these families have in common: the gender nonconforming child is adopted.  Six out of the last eight families to have a parent contact me are raising a gender nonconforming child that is not biologically theirs. As I think back, before I started noticing the trend and keeping track, I can remember several other families who contacted me and who — while sharing with me a little about their gender nonconforming child — mentioned that s/he was adopted. Do adoptive parents need more help as they raise a gender nonconforming child?  Or, are they just more likely to seek out help?  Am I not hearing from biological parents raising their gender nonconforming child because they have it totally handled and don’t need a thing? I hadn’t mentioned this trend to anyone until I brought it up to a new mom friend of mine who I met through the blog and who is raising an adopted gender nonconforming boy. She thought about it for a while and then gave the most beautiful possible explanation. She believes that the universe places adopted families together.  Maybe the universe or some higher power knew that she would be a great mom for a gender nonconforming son and so it gave her one. I nodded my head in agreement.  I knew what she meant.  I feel like the universe gave me C.J. on purpose.  I’m the best mother for him; I can feel it in my heart.  I was meant to be C.J.’s mother. We talked about it.  And, she pointed out that most adoptive parents have to go through quite a lot to have a child; in most cases it’s more of a process than biological parents have to go through.  Maybe the intense longing to have a child, the legal process and the challenges that can go along with the adoption process readies a parent to be more accepting of absolutely whatever comes their way.  Are adoptive parents more accustomed to seeking out help and resources? Because the child is not biologically theirs, can they better separate themselves from the child and the traditional expectations that go along with parenting a child that is half theirs and half their partner’s?  If so, does that better prepare them to avoid a mourning a process, see a challenge and address it?  Adoptive parents have no idea what they are going to get. They start with no expectations because they don’t know what to expect. They know that the child isn’t going to be a mini-me, so are they more willing to let the child be who they were created to be – knowing that they signed up to deal with whatever they were given? Then, I noticed another trend.  More than half of the families who have contacted me have mentioned that their gender nonconforming child is also a little behind in school, is at risk for repeating a grade level or has already repeated a school year. It feels like yet another special need families like ours must deal with.  For C.J. for example, I feel like his slow academic progression can in part be attributed to his being focused on gender differences and worrying about whether kids will notice his different gender presentation.  When you are worried if other kids will notice and tease you about liking girl stuff, learning addition and subtraction isn’t going to seem important.  Learning uppercase and lowercase letters doesn’t feel like a survival skill.  Blending in when needed and honoring your true self when safe to do so, do feel like survival skills.  I can understand that. Also, if you’re a boy who likes cradling a doll in the kitchen during free time in the classroom you seem a little younger and immature.  Five- and six-year-old gender conforming boys have matured and moved past that.  They have moved on to throwing sand at each other on the playground and tackling each other during games of full-contact tag. For parents who are living with all of these things — raising a child who is gender nonconforming, adopted and sixth months to two years academically behind their same-age peers — the challenges just seem to keep compounding.  I have to believe it’s because the universe knew what it was doing.  It gave the unique challenges to parents who are strong, smart and loving enough to handle them and never accept defeat.  It’s not a scientific explanation, but it’s the one that makes the most sense to me. * * * Raising My Rainbow has been selected as a finalist in the 2013 Parents Blog Awards in the category of “Most Likely to Inspire You to Change the World.” Voting is super simple.  Just click here and select my blog under the “Most Likely to Inspire You to Change the World” category.  You can vote once a day until Feb. 24. Don’t want people on your feed to know that you voted? Click the “Vote” button, on the next screen click on the silhouette people near the bottom of the page, choose the “custom” option and click on “Only Me,” save the change and hit “Share.”  Or, share it to your wall, then go to your wall and delete the post by clicking on the “x” next to the post.  I won’t be offended.  Swearsies.      All Posts Adoption Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting Queerty Raising My Rainbow Adopted Kids More Likely To Be Gender Creative?  Happy Birthday to C.J.’s Dad — the most kick-ass husband and father ever.  C.J.’s Dad doesn’t get nearly enough credit for how amazing he is.  Which is probably my fault because I don’t go on and on about him very often when blogging. “Where’s this kid’s father?!” is a comment I get a lot.  It’s not really a question; rather, people are inferring that if my son had a strong, positive, available role model in his life he wouldn’t be gender creative. Well, C.J.’s Dad is right here, right beside me.  And, he’s wherever C.J. needs him to be – whether it’s behind him, beside him, ahead of him or carrying him.  He’s never been anywhere but where our family has needed him to be.  Every wife and child should be so lucky. I love you, baby.  Happy Birthday! * * * C.J.’s hair is practically a trending topic.  So, here’s the story on C.J.’s hair for all of those who are interested.  It’s cut short in what the majority of society would consider to be a “boy’s haircut.”  Why do I have it cut that way?  Because that’s how C.J. wants it. This time last year he wanted to grow it out “like a girl.”  So we did.  A week before kindergarten started in September he asked to “cut it short like a boy.”  So we did.  This week he asked to “grow it out like a girl.”  So we are.  As always, we are just along for the ride.  Stay tuned and send some detangler! * * * Happy Valentine’s Day from C.J. and his family.  He went with Monster High Valentines again this year.  Be yourself, be unique, be a monster, be my Valentine. * * * Raising My Rainbow has been selected as a finalist in the 2013 Parents Blog Awards in the category of “Most Likely to Inspire You to Change the World.” Voting is super simple.  Just click here and select my blog under the “Most Likely to Inspire You to Change the World” category.  You can vote once a day until Feb. 24. I would love to win this honor because Parents Magazine is one of the leading (if not the leading) parenting magazine in the U.S. and exposure to my blog would no doubt help some of their millions of readers better understand gender; consider their expectations for their child when it comes to gender, sex and sexuality; and hopefully encourage them to educate cisgender children to be more empathetic and kind towards LGBTQ children. A special thanks to the person or people who nominated me!  I’m flattered and grateful.    All Posts C.J.'s Dad hair hair cut Monster High Parents Magazine Valentine's Day Valentines Friday Fodder: Happy Birthday C.J.’s Dad Edition  Following are highlights from our month on Instagram. Click here for all of the months’ pictures, thoughts and happenings.  Let’s face it. I’ll never be as cool as this kid.   Just some logo-inspired art CJ did for our friends HRC to thank them for their help and support during the James Woods Debacle of 2017.   “I like wearing this hat because, number one, it has llamas on it. And, number two is the best of all, I feel like I have long braids hanging down.” — CJ, age 10   “My heart is beating so fast! I’m so excited!,” CJ squealed as we drove to Ulta Beauty to spend the $50 gift card Uncle Michael gave him for Christmas. He says he’s going to spend the rest of the day doing makeup and using his new straightening iron. Who’s coming over for a free makeover? He wants to order in Thai food and I’ll supply the wine.   My glam squad is getting me ready for the Golden Globes. My look is unicorn inspired with a touch of mermaid and a dash of sparkle. UPDATE: This look apparently requires several types of highlighter liberally applied. Over and over again.   When I was about CJ’s age I was obsessed with The Babysitter’s Club series. Ob-sessed. I was such a freaking Kristy, but longed to be artistic and exotic like Claudia. And urban and mature like Stacey. Seeing CJ reading this book makes my heart smile. “The kids at school are going to say it’s a girls book and babysitting is for girls,” he pointed out. We both just rolled our eyes and went back to our respective books.   “This is great lighting. Take my picture. And I’ll give you my ‘what you’re saying to me is bullshit face’.” — CJ, age 10 Maybe I should be discouraging his use of profanities. Maybe I should be discouraging having a “I’m not interested in your bullshit” facial expression in his arsenal. But, the truth is, he’s used that look a few times when it was necessary. When someone was saying something about his gender expression. And I was proud. CJ will be 11 this week. His confidence is growing. He’s sure of who he is. He’s a wonder.   Friends who try out new slime recipes together, stay together. CJ met this new friend only a few months ago, but the connection was instant. They like to jump on the trampoline, swim, craft and create. They giggle nonstop. Seriously. Nonstop. When they grow up they are going to be interior designers and go into business together. The best part? We love the friend’s entire family. How refreshing is it when you find your people?   Can I get an “amen” up in here?      All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming HRC LGBTQ Month In Review Orange County parenting Ulta Our Month in Review: January 2018  C.J.’s school year ended on Friday. Days prior to that was his class’s Open House – a night near the end of the school year when families are invited into the classroom to ooh and aah over the students’ best work. Of course Matt and I attended. We are really good at oohing and aahing. Being in fourth grade, C.J. spent the year learning about his home state of California. On his desk sat a ceramic tile on which CJ had painted one of California’s missions. The front of the classroom was covered in art depicting California’s missions at sunset. I found C.J.’s and took a picture of it with my phone. On the side wall there were individual pictures of each student looking like they were panning for gold. I took a picture of prospector C.J. and walked to the back of the room, where the biggest writing project of the year was on display. The students had to write an essay as if they were 1840s emigrants traveling by covered wagon across the western half of the United States from Missouri to California. The students had to take the assignment seriously. They had to carefully consider who they would want in their wagon, the supplies they would bring and the challenges the journey might hold. I read snippets of other students’ essays as I searched for C.J.’s. Many of them had their wagons loaded with family, friends and pets. I couldn’t wait to read who C.J. picked to travel and start a new life with in California. I bet it would be Matt, Chase and I. His family. Of course. There it was! I found C.J.’s essay and started reading. “C.J., Bob The Drag Queen, RuPaul and many more travelers were on their way to California from Kansas City, Missouri,” started the opening paragraph. “It was winter. They were going to California because they wanted to get wealthy and have better jobs and a better place to live.” Another mom bumped in to me as she read her child’s essay hanging next to C.J.’s. I glanced at her child’s story and then stopped when I realized that might prompt her to read C.J.’s drag-queens-on-a-road-trip-a-la-To-Wong-Foo essay. When given the freedom to pick whoever he wanted to start a new and better life with, my son didn’t choose family; he chose the most famous drag queens in the world. He left me in Missouri and struck out for California. I wanted to be in covered wagon. I’m fun. I like drag queens. After reading and photographing his essay, Matt and I made our way to the door and stopped to talk to C.J.’s teacher. “So, tell me, in all your years of teaching, have you ever had a student load their covered wagon with drag queens?” I asked her. She started laughing and shaking her head. “When I first started reading his story, it took me a minute to realize who all of those people were,” she said, still laughing. “Of course that’s who he chose! Only C.J.!” Yes. Only C.J. I told C.J. that I loved his essay and he explained that his initial concept had included more wigs, makeup, costumes and hijinks. And Jinkx Monsoon. He said he toned it down after a few reminders that the story was supposed to be historical fiction, not fantasy. I’m not sure why that meant that Jinkx got eliminated and the other two queens got to stay. Maybe I was in the wagon in the first drafts, too. Maybe I got edited out. Maybe I stayed in Missouri with Jinkx. Maybe I’ll visit C.J., Bob The Drag Queen and RuPaul in California one day once they get settled, wealthy, have better jobs and a better place to live.   The Starving Travelers By: C.J.,  Grade 4,  June 2017 C.J., Bob The Drag Queen, RuPaul and many more travelers were on their way to California from Kansas City, Missouri. It was winter. They were going to California because they wanted to get wealthy and have better jobs and a better place to live. “Come on!,” yelled Joe, a man who was also traveling to California. “Ya’ll got to get these wagons over the river before nightfall!” Once all the wheels were off the wagons, they all got the wagons on the river. Within minutes, something happened that they were not prepared for. “Oh no! Oh no!,” yelled Bob The Drag Queen. “All of our food is floating away!!” Joe dove in to the water and swam as fast as a dolphin. It was no use. All their barrels of water and boxes of cornbread were gone. C.J. looked around and heard sobs as loud as a stampede of buffalo from all the travelers. “Come on! We have to keep going,” yelled RuPaul. “We need to get to California!” C.J. looked at Bob The Drag Queen who had no hair because her wig fell off and Bob The Drag Queen looked at RuPaul who had also lost her wig. C.J. asked RuPaul “What are we going to do?!” “I don’t know, but we need to get out of here and to California as fast as cheetahs!” said RuPaul. The next day was full of hunger, fear and a bunch of mixed emotions. As all the wagons traveled in the heat that felt like lava. The sun blistered the travelers backs. Skin was peeling off of their backs. It was almost too much to handle. Just as the travelers thought that they couldn’t go any farther, out of the corner of his eye, C.J. spotted a group of Indians. C.J. jumped up and stood up as tall as he could in his high heels to show that he wasn’t afraid. Once the Indians saw how starving, tired, scared and weak the travelers were, the Indians played games with the kids, gave them a place to sleep, gave them food and water and told them the fastest trail to California. RuPaul, Bob The Drag Queen and C.J. got to California three days later. They got more food and a nice house and became very wealthy.    All Posts Bob the Drag Queen gender creative gender nonconforming Jinkx Monsoon LGBTQ Orange County parenting RuPaul RuPaul's Drag Race Category Is: Covered Wagon Realness  If you haven’t noticed, I’m not a particularly good photographer. I’m not one of those mommy bloggers who uses a fancy DSLR camera with a snazzy homemade strap cover to capture vivid, crisp pictures of our daily, quirky lives. I take photos with my phone. And sometimes when I have an extra moment or two in between laundry, dishes, homework and RHBH, I use my $2.99 Photoshop app to gussy them up for your viewing pleasure. All that being the case, I have to make an effort to get frame-worthy pictures taken of my boys at least once a year. I usually try to use some random local photographer at the suggestion of some random local friend.  Said photographer tries to do something “artistic” or “photojournalistic” to “capture the moments in life to treasure forever” or something like that.  We’ve done it barefoot on the beach in Laguna and dressed in layers on train tracks in San Juan Capistrano – just like every other family in South Orange County. A few weeks ago I received a coupon from the local portrait studio advertising a Children’s Portrait Sale — a photo session, 8×10, two 3x5s and eight wallets for $39.95.  They said it was a $222 value.  I didn’t necessarily believe them, but I booked a studio session anyway. I put the boys in coordinating outfits and off we went to the first appointment on a Saturday morning. We were greeted by a photographer who looked to be in her mid-twenties.  She had pale porcelain skin and jet black hair that she wore in the same style as Dora The Explorer.  She had matte red lips and a high-pitched voice. She walked us the studio and got the boys situated under the hot, bright lights and spacey looking reflectors.  The boys were all straight-faced. “Am I going to have to make you smile?” she teased, putting her hands on her hips. She got out a tennis ball with a silly face drawn on it and held it above the camera.  The boys smiled slightly, but it felt forced. “Okay, now picture your dad wearing a dress!” she exclaimed. Holy shit!  Where did that come from?  Did she really just say that?  What the hell just happened? The eyes of both boys darted right to mine.  The forced smiles flew away instantly.  In our family we don’t joke about gender presentation. It’s not funny.  I never realized how much my boys have picked up on that until that moment in the photographer’s studio.  I stared at my boys and they stared at me. The photographer, realizing that her joke had left her audience unamused, pulled another funny quip out of her arsenal.  It must have worked, because she managed to get a few good shots of the boys together. Then it was time for the individual shots.  C.J.’s Brother was up first. “Now, picture your brother wearing a dress,” she said with a giggle. “I don’t have to picture that.  I see it everyday.  I saw it this morning,” C.J.’s Brother shot back making unwavering eye contact with her. C.J was staring nervously at me and wringing his fingers. I was speechless.  I was pissed at the photographer for making fun of gender presentation and being so presumptuous.  I was proud of C.J.’s Brother for taking a stand.  I was worried that the scene would bother C.J.  I was upset with myself for not paying attention during high school photography class so that I wouldn’t have to submit my kids to this kind of awkwardness.  I wish I could take my own damn pictures. The photographer moved on to another of her one-liners and snapped away.  There was a tension in the room.  You can see it in the individual pictures of the boys.  I didn’t order any of those. “You both looked very handsome in the pictures,” I said to the boys during lunch that afternoon. “Thanks,” they said in unison as they colored their kids’ menus. “That lady wasn’t very funny,” C.J.’s Brother said without looking up. “No, she wasn’t.  Some people have different senses of humor,” I said, choosing my words wisely.  “I think you handled the situation perfectly.” “Thanks, so did you,” C.J.’s Brother said with a sly smile, eyes focused as he connected the dots on his menu to reveal a hamburger. I smiled.  We all handled that situation pretty well.  A lot of times, because of C.J.’s gender nonconformity, I never know how things will happen and what our reactions will be.  More and more, over the course of the past three years, I’ve gotten comfortable with trusting that it’s all going to turn out okay.    All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting photographer photography Raising My Rainbow RHBH Your Gender Jokes Don’t Make Us Smile  Can I ask you for a favor? Raising My Rainbow has been selected as a finalist in the 2013 Parents Blog Awards in the category of “Most Likely to Inspire You to Change the World.” Voting is super simple.  Just click here and select my blog under the “Most Likely to Inspire You to Change the World” category.  You can vote once a day until Feb. 24. I would love to win this honor because Parents Magazine is one of the leading (if not the leading) parenting magazine in the U.S. and exposure to my blog would no doubt help some of their millions of readers better understand gender; consider their expectations for their child when it comes to gender, sex and sexuality; and hopefully encourage them to educate cisgender children to be more empathetic and kind towards LGBTQ children. A special thanks to the person or people who nominated me!  I’m flattered and grateful. * * * Last week may have been C.J.’s birthday, but I’m the one who received the most amazing gift! KidzCanDesign is a company that converts a child’s work of art into custom, high quality, sterling silver jewelry.  They took one of C.J.’s self-portraits and turned it into a necklace that I will treasure forever. The self-portrait that they used was drawn by C.J. right as kindergarten started in September, right before he drew himself as a boy for the first time ever.  So, the art is special to me and always will be.  I can’t get enough of this necklace. Check out KidzCanDesign and if you choose to order something use the promo code RAINBOW for 35 percent off of your order and free U.S. shipping.  You can also like them at Facebook/KidzCanDesign. * * * Finally, you all HAVE to watch this video.  The content, the way it is presented, artist iO Tillett Wright’s delivery, intelligence, compassion….I can’t stop thinking about it.  I’m fascinated by iO Tillett Wright’s gender nonconforming childhood. “I grew up in a very sheltered environment. I was raised in downtown Manhattan in the early 1980s … Where I come from, if you weren’t a drag queen or a radical thinker or a performance artist of some kind, you were the weirdo.” “iO Tillett Wright thanks her parents for not asking her to define herself as a child. Her experience of growing up without having check boxes like “female,” “male,” “gay” or straight” thoroughly infuses her art.”     All Posts 2013 Parents Blog Awards iO Tillett Wright KidzCanDesign Parents Magazine Friday Fodder: Vote for Me & KidzCanDesign Edition  C.J.’s Valentine’s Day themed, crafty, dress-up 6th birthday party — to which he wanted all of his friends to attend dressed as “rock-star sassy fairy ballerina Harajuku girls” — was a huge success!  We are still recovering so this post will be more photos and less words.  Enjoy! The Birthday Boy’s tiara…and some for his friends. C.J. and I made cupcakes for his guests. I usually pin crafts to my Pinterest board and never actually make them. Not this time! C.J. and I folded hearts using pages from the Pottery Barn Kids catalog and strung them together to make garland.  This photo doesn’t do our work justice.   The Birthday Boy’s outfit. He decided to ditch the leg warmers and opt for his silver heels over his purple bejeweled ballet flats. We hadn’t intended for jumping on the trampoline to be a part of the party, but it’s hard to resist a good bounce.   This was the first year that C.J. didn’t receive a single “boy toy.” He’s really digging the new La Dee Da dolls. His favorite gift of all…Uncle Uncle got a headband with a blonde braid attached, purchased extensions of real hair and hand sewed them onto the braided headband. C.J. can have long, blonde “girl hair” whenever he wants. The day after the party, C.J. bounced in his new dress that, according to him, makes him look like a teenager and his couture headband.                All Posts Birthday gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Harajuku princess Birthday Party Success  Thank you all so much for the birthday wishes.  The birthday boy is now snuggled in bed wearing his new Disney Princess nightgown clutching his two new Monster High Dolls. The big party is tomorrow; wish us luck and be on the lookout for pictures next week. * * * In honor of C.J.’s sixth birthday, the winner of last week’s coloring book giveaway (One of Kind Colouring Book 1. Surprise Box) is the sixth person to enter by commenting on that blog post.  Congratulations are in order for Sofia, who wanted the coloring book for her daughter who loves dinosaurs and enjoys wearing clothes from the “boy side” of department stores. * * * From time to time readers contact me hoping that I can help them meet other gender creative families in their area.   If you are in the following areas and looking to connect with other families raising a gender nonconforming child, email me at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com. Pennsylvania  Philadelphia/Lower Merion/Haverford area  Washington  Seattle  California  Oakland Glendora Murrieta/Temecula Newbury Park  Connecticut  Western Connecticut (approximately one hour from Massachusetts border)     All Posts Friday Fodder: Happy Birthday C.J. Edition  You Are Invited to C.J.’s Valentine’s Day Themed, Crafty, Dress-Up 6th Birthday Party Saturday at 11 a.m. Lunch and sweets will be served. Crafts will be made. Dress to dazzle.  Sparkles, glitter, tutus and pink are encouraged. You be you. Have your people RSVP to C.J.’s people. The invites are out for C.J.’s sixth birthday party.  If one wasn’t hand-delivered to you, better luck next year. My sweet baby C.J. C.J. has been planning his outfit for the last four weeks and four months ago he started planning the actual event.  He vacillated between another bounce house warehouse party (super easy) and going to Disneyland (super expense).  Then, he wanted to go and create at Build-A-Bear Workshop and dine at Ruby’s with two friends.  Then he wanted five friends.  Then he wanted eight friends.  $75 bucks per bear times nine kids equals no way in hell. Ultimately, he decided that he wanted a small party at our house with Valentine’s Day decorations.  Doable.  He wanted to do crafts with his best girl friends.   Doable.   He wanted everybody to wear pink tutus and dress up like “rock-star sassy fairy ballerina Harajuku girls.”  What does that even mean? We handmade invitations and agreed on an invite list. Grace, a friend since birth – She wouldn’t miss it for the world and won’t think twice about seeing C.J. dressed in his fabulous finest.  She’d actually be more caught off guard if she saw him looking totally and completely masculine. Girl Friend #1 from school – She’s known C.J. for two years and knows that he likes girl stuff.  She dresses to impress him every day at school.  Her mom has informed me that if C.J. doesn’t compliment her outfit she deems it unsuccessful. Girl Friend #2 from school – She asks C.J. to marry her on a weekly basis.  He has reluctantly agreed.  She writes him love letters crowded with hearts and drawings of the two of them holding hands – with him wearing pink.  He has a hard time not touching her long blonde hair during story time.  They’ve known each other only since September. Girl Friend #3 from school – Another new friend who C.J. met when school started, she is a total character and makes me laugh every time I spend even a minute with her.  I secretly want her to be C.J.’s best friend because she is so animated and entertaining that she keeps me amused nonstop.  Maybe I should just be best friends with her.   She has informed me that C.J. told her that he only likes girl stuff and she thinks that is great.  At the same time, she told me that she thinks donuts are sweet. Lina, the new neighborhood friend – Lina has known C.J. for several months and only knows C.J. around our house and in the neighborhood, where his gender creativeness is on full, proud display – like when he runs in his heels better than Sarah Jessica Parker on Sex and the City or rides his purple scooter wearing a purple skirt and a red wig.  Lina’s family is from Lithuania and after meeting C.J. for the second time, they asked which pronouns he prefers.  I almost cried tears of joy. So, three of the five girls see C.J. mostly at school where he presents himself totally as a boy. Should I inform their mothers that when the invite says “Dress to dazzle” it means that everybody will be dazzling in glitter, pink, a tutu and who knows what else?  I decided that I should.  I had to warn the partygoers and their parents that the birthday boy would be dressed like girl.  I would want the warning if the tables were turned and it could eliminate some teasing and awkwardness.  It only seemed fair. But, I didn’t want to deliver the warning with the kids in earshot.  It’s yet another way that sometimes I have to go ahead of C.J. and check the path, make sure it’s safe and comfortable, without him knowing that sometimes his being gender creative can make life a bit more of a process. I told the mom of Girl Friend #1 from school.  “Yeah, I figured,” she said. I told the mom of Girl Friend #2 from school.  She smiled and seemed fine with it.  I got a text from her the next day letting me know that her daughter wouldn’t be able to attend due to a scheduling conflict. I told the mom of Girl Friend #3 from school. “Really?” she asked. “Yes,” I said and smiled. “Well, isn’t that fun?” she said. “Good, I’m glad you don’t mind,” I said, pissed as the words exited my mouth like I was asking her permission. “Well, if someone minds what your son wears, they have way too much time on their hands,” she said.  She’s the oldest mom in the class (possibly a grandma turned mom) and I cherished her wisdom. “Ain’t that the truth?” I replied. This Saturday, C.J. – who looks “all boy” at school — will open the door to his guests wearing a pink tutu from H&M and, from Target, pink metallic leggings, pink glitter legwarmers, purple bejeweled ballet flats and – the crowning glory – a black and white houndstooth, sequined sweater from Gwen Stefani’s Harajuku Mini collection for kids.    All Posts Main Site Header Birthday Disneyland Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Gwen Stefani H&M Harajuku Kindergarten Orange County parenting Queerty Raising My Rainbow Target C.J. Turns Six In Style  I have found THE NEATEST coloring book about gender identity for C.J.  It’s called One of Kind Colouring Book 1. Surprise Box and it was sent to me by author/illustrator and Raising My Rainbow reader Geneviève Labelle of Montréal, Québec. “At one time, there was pink-only colouring books aimed at little girls filled with princesses and charming princes and blue-and-khaki-only colouring books roaming with superheroes and brave firemen. Between them, nothingness.  The nature of each one of us is more complex than what is offered by the mass culture industry for which colouring books are powerful promotional items.  Geneviève Labelle proposes an heteroclite collection of drawings that incites us to rise above stereotypes. This page from the book is soooooo C.J. This amusing colouring book will satisfy anyone who believes that identity is a conception of the self that is always under construction, just like the Montreal’s Olympic Stadium’s roof.” C.J. loves the coloring book and it provides a humorous read for adults too.  To learn more or order, click here. To win a copy of the book, leave a comment below.  The winner will be announced next Friday.  Good luck! * * * Enrollment is open for Camp Aranu’tiq in California.  Camp Aranu’tiq is a weeklong, overnight summer camp for transgender and gender-variant youth ages eight through 15.  It’s a place where life experiences are shared and lifelong friendships are made. The dates are Sunday, June 30, through Saturday, July 6, and space is limited.  There is a camp in New England as well.  Learn more about both camps by clicking here. * * * The first LGBTQ-inclusive Jewish Children’s book in English is out.  The Purim Superhero is about Nate who loves aliens and really wants to wear an alien costume for Purim, but his friends are all dressing as superheroes and he wants to fit in. What will he do? With the help of his two dads he makes a surprising decision. Published by Kar-Ben Publishing, an award-winning publisher of Jewish children’s books, the manuscript is the winner of Keshet’s national book-writing contest. * * * Have you seen this rad teenager?  Watch as this high school senior publicly tells 300+ students that he is an LGBTQ teen.  The applause and cheers that he gets make me giddy and his strength gives me hope.  The people who raised him did something right.     All Posts Camp Aranu'tiq gender identity One of Kind Colouring Book The Purim Superhero Friday Fodder: Giveaway and Camp Aranu’tiq Edition  The author of this post is my very best friend KK, whom C.J. knows affectionately as Auntie KK. I love C.J.’s mom.  She is my very best friend and my soul sister.  We have been besties for more years than I care to say for fear of revealing our scandalously young age… Ha! KK’s kids and C.J.’s Brother I also love C.J. and his brother as if they were my own.  My husband and I have two children as well and they have all been raised together since birth.  Brothers, sisters, cousins…they may not have these titles officially, but they are family.  We are family. As many families do, we have holiday traditions, non-traditions, random outings of all sorts and this holiday season was no different.  Our two clans came together just before Christmas at a local amusement park for some seasonal fun and the standard picture with Santa.  C.J.’s mom and I both agreed to dress the kids in festive attire so that we would have ourselves a great picture for years to come. However, as I helped my nine-year-old daughter assemble her outfit for the day, I realized for the first time that I had reservations about her overly zealous use of accessories and things that glitter.  The fact was, we were going to be spending the entire day in public with C.J.  He would not be in full C.J. regalia and I did not want to make him feel jealous or uncomfortable.  I did not have to even explain it to my daughter, just the simple mention of who our party included was reason enough for her to tone it down.  Even something inside of her knew. Our 2012 picture with Santa The day was crisp and the kids all looked adorable in their layers.  C.J. was wearing his dark washed jeans, holiday appropriate red henley and super cool black motorcycle jacket.  The other three children were also dressed in gender-typical chilly weather, holiday clothing.  The day itself was a success.  Us adults took turns riding different attractions with the kids as to not give any one parent total nausea from the spinning and jerking death traps. Once all the fun was had at the park we set out for a conjoined family dinner at the nearby Mexican restaurant to conclude the day.  After dinner we went our separate ways and called it a night.  All things considered it was a normal outing enjoyed by all. It wasn’t until the next day that I realized that, in fact, it was not a normal day at all.  I could not immediately pinpoint it but there had been something off.  The entire day had an air about it that was just wrong.  After some more thought I decided to go back through my phone and look at the pictures from the day.  And there it was…in color right before my eyes.  I was staring at the picture of the kids with Santa.  All of them were smiling, looking as cute as ever.  And then there was C.J., smiling, but also fighting with himself.  Holding his tiny little hands together, fighting the urge to strike a fabulous pose and pop his hip just so… KK’s Daughter and C.J. having a fashion show You see, I have been a passenger on this journey with C.J.’s Mom from the beginning but in many respects I am still an outsider looking in.  Our families are so blended that almost all of our outings, trips and week long vacations end with us in the comfort of one of our homes, together.  It is there that C.J. is able to be his true self.  Either wrapped in his own dress up clothes or in my daughter’s hand me downs, this is C.J.  It had been some time since we spent an entire day with “public C.J.” only.  And, as I stared at the picture my heart broke.  My heart broke for C.J. and for my best friend and for C.J.’s Brother and Father.  The trials and tribulations are just beginning. Although I was witness to this day’s internal battle for C.J., they live with this day in and day out.  C.J.’s Mom and Dad will have to struggle every day with the public versus private C.J.  How much of his true self do you allow him to show and still be able to protect him from the judgment of others?  C.J.’s brother has many of these hard days in front of his as well.  How does he use his words — not his fists — to help the other children understand that C.J. is special because of his differences and not to be the subject of childhood tortures?  How do you balance a free and open spirit with a close-minded world? I can only imagine what it is to struggle with the biggest part of yourself every day, your heart!  We all struggle each day with something, those pesky 10 pounds, a bad hair day or the cranky boss/toddler/husband/insert noun here.  But, to fight your true self each day at five years old?  That is earth shattering. KK’s Daughter and C.J. in Colorado As much as my heart is broken, it is also full of pride.  I am proud of C.J. for not letting the world quell his fire.  He is not at a point in his life where he has to claim a stake into one side of the fence or the other, although some may expect it.  But he is not allowing the expected to totally define him.  He is C.J…gender non-conforming.  My hope is that he won’t always have to struggle between the “Public C.J.” and the “Private C.J.”  If the two could just come together, the world would see one amazing child. I would be remiss if I did not mention the overflowing amount of pride I have in my very best friend.  Not every parent is equipped to handle a child that requires more… more help, more understanding, more patience.  However, C.J. knew what he was doing when he picked her as his mother, there truly would be no better fit.  C.J.’s mom is a remarkable woman and I am privileged to be her friend. A strong woman stands up for herself, but the strongest women stand up for others.  You my friend are among the strongest! I love you. KK    All Posts Christmas effeminate Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes KK Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow C.J. From Another Person’s Perspective  A few months ago, Gender Spectrum launched Gender Spectrum Lounge, a digital space for gender non-conforming and transgender children, their families and the variety of professionals to share their stories and experiences.  It’s a great place to exchange ideas, confide and discuss the topics that are most important to our community in a safe, secure and supportive digital platform.  For the safety and security of everyone involved there are few steps to join the Lounge.  I’m sure you can understand why.  It’s totally worth it.    Also, Gender Spectrum has a national call-in support group.  It’s a conference call that takes place on the last Wednesday of each month from 5 to 7 p.m. (PST).  Contact them to learn more at 510.567.3977 or info@genderspectrum.org.   * * *   Have you ever heard someone say that the worst thing they can imagine for their child is for them to be gay?  I have.  Read one women’s response in this blog post.  My favorite line of hers is “Get a fu*king clue.” Thanks to the Raising My Rainbow reader who sent this my way!  * * *  DreamWorks and Honda Center in Anaheim invited us to the premiere of the How To Train Your Dragon Live Spectacular.  It was really an amazing show and C.J.’s Brother has given it two thumbs us.  They have just released more than 800 new tickets across the seven previously sold out performances.  Get tickets at ticketmaster.com or by calling (800) 745-3000.  If you’re not in OC, you should see the show if/when it hits your town.    All Posts DreamWorks Gender Spectrum Honda Center How To Train Your Dragon ﻿Friday Fodder: Gender Spectrum Lounge  “What’s all that stuff back there?!  I see pink!” C.J. asked enthusiastically as I was driving him home from school. On his way upstairs to pack for his trip to see his new cousin.  Crap.  I didn’t have to turn around to know what he was pointing at.  He had seen the shopping bags I had stashed in the back of the car and covered with a beach towel. You see, we have welcomed a new member into our extended family.  C.J.’s Dad’s brother and his wife had their second child and it is a girl.  They waited to learn the sex of the baby until the birth.  A few days after they called to say that a baby girl had been born, I dropped C.J. off at school and spent two hours shopping for my new niece. I’m the last person who should be enforcing traditional gender norms.  I’m the last person who should be buying $100 worth of pink clothes, blankets and burp clothes.  I should know better than to buy a teething ring that looks like a giant engagement ring and rattle that looks like a luxury handbag.  But, I did it.  I did it all and I’m not taking it back. She’s the first girl in the family, there are no “girl” hand-me-downs for her, she needs clothes and when she’s a toddler I will buy her tools, the best router table when she’s older and cars and dinosaurs and encourage her to excel in math and science.  I will be her auntie who will tell her that she can be anything that she wants to be: president, astronaut, athlete, firefighter. But, for now, she can’t hold her head up, sleep through the night or see more than a few feet from her face and I want to see her in pink with ridiculously sized flowers and bows in her hair.  I would paint her nails if I could.  Where you might have previously thought me to be a model citizen in the land of gender nonconformity, I had a niece and briefly became the queen of enforcing gender norms.  You are more than welcome to leave an admonishing comment below.  I was bad.  Real bad. But, I knew that I couldn’t be that person in front of my children.  So I went shopping in secret, in private, while C.J. was at school and then hid the evidence to pack and ship later on the sly. “What is all that pink stuff?  Is it for me?!” C.J. asked again. “It’s presents for Baby Sarah,” I said, knowing that it wasn’t going to be a short conversation. Playing with Grandma Colorado’s dogs at his cousins’ house. We had told him about the arrival of Baby Sarah the night before at bedtime.  I wasn’t exactly eager to tell him that there was a full-fledged girl in the family, but I had to after being reprimanded by Grandma Colorado for not spreading the good news. How would my gender nonconforming son react upon learning that the role of “most feminine child/grandchild in the family” that he had been occupying for nearly four years had been snatched from him by a baby? “How come she isn’t just getting hand me downs?” he asked. “Because she is a girl and our family doesn’t have any baby girl hand me downs.” “She can have my baby girl clothes hand me downs?” he offered. “Baby, you only wore baby boy clothes.” I realized that my son probably can’t remember a time in his life when he wore exclusively boy clothes. “How come you made me wear only boy clothes?” he asked slightly disgusted. “Because I didn’t know that you liked girl stuff,” I answered honestly. “How come you didn’t know that?” “Because you weren’t old enough to tell me or show me.” His sad face crushed me.  He was wondering why I didn’t know my own child, my baby.  How could I have been so wrong about my child?  Because I was full of assumptions and expectations — none of which included my son being anything other than heteronormative. “I’m sorry, baby,” I said to C.J.  A blanket statement to cover so much. When was the last time you awoke to a fairy scaling the fireplace in your bedroom? We saw Baby Sarah a few weeks later and I worried how C.J. would feel about the newest member of our family who is everything he wants to be.  I secretly prayed that Grandma and Grandpa Colorado wouldn’t go on and on about finally having a girl in the family after generations of only boys.  I didn’t know how that would make C.J. feel. Thankfully they didn’t say anything to the effect. And, when C.J. got a chance to hold Baby Sarah he looked up at me and smiled that award-worthy smile of his.  He gently adjusted her pink hat and kissed her cheek.  I hope that the two of them become great friends…in pink or blue or whatever hue.    Main Site Header Baby Sarah gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes motherhood I Dressed My Baby Boy In Blue, I’m An Idiot  Things that are on my mind or that I’m digging this week… Inspired by my blog, a documentary filmmaker friend of mine is working on a new feature documentary project that follows the real-life adventures of ordinary families raising fabulously gender creative children. The film will be part of a campaign to increase visibility, awareness and acceptance. She’s looking to connect with parents, families, friends and allies who are at various points of the journey and open to the idea of sharing their stories on-camera. She’s also looking for teens, young adults and adults who were gender nonconforming as children to be interviewed as experts. Interested? Email the amazing Sarah at: rainbowdocumentary@gmail.com. * * * Read about “Generation LGBTQIA” as reported by The New York Times this week. “If the gay-rights movement today seems to revolve around same-sex marriage, this generation is seeking something more radical: an upending of gender roles beyond the binary of male/female.” * * * Have you all been tuning into the web series Neil’s Puppet Dreams? This week’s episode is my favorite so far. Neil Patrick Harris, David Burtka, Joe Manganiello and Willam Belli star. Enough said.  * * * All you moms out there have got to watch I Do Not Like Shaved Legs and Spanx, a Nick Mom parody of I Do Not Like Green Eggs and Ham. It’s the launch of “motherfunny” parodies of popular children’s books geared toward moms who’ve seen it all. I can totally relate to this episode because I happen to not like shaved legs and spanx. Have a great weekend,  C.J.’s Mom    All Posts David Burtka Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Joe Manganiello LGBTQIA Neil Patrick Harris Neil's Puppet Dreams Nick Mom Spanx The New York Times Willam Belli Friday Fodder  The day I met one of my heroes. Lesléa and I in 2014. One of my favorite authors has a new book out about one of my favorite topics. Lesléa Newman’s Sparkle Boy is about a little boy who loves things that sparkle, shimmer and glitter. He’s a lot like my son C.J. I interviewed Lesléa about her new book and her work over the last 35 years as an award-winning, trailblazing author and advocate for the LGBTQ community. Lori Duron: I discovered your work when my brother gave my sons your book The Boy Who Cried Fabulous. As a fabulous, gay uncle, he wanted his nephews to see characters like him in literature. Little did we know that the book would resonate so much with my youngest son, C.J., who is fabulous and gender creative. After I started my blog, I reached out to you to say how much that book meant to us and our son. And I wrote a blog post about it. Lesléa Newman: I so appreciated hearing from you! The Boy Who Cried Fabulous resonates with lots of people, including teachers and librarians who love the fact that it contains so many adjectives, which is something I never thought of. Duron: Shortly thereafter we discovered A Fire Engine for Ruthie, about a little girl who likes motorcycles and fire engines. I feel like that book doesn’t get enough attention. I mean, it came out 13 years ago and the protagonist is clearly more than a tomboy — she’s gender creative. Once again you were ahead of your time. What was the reaction to that book when it was first published? Newman: As far as A Fire Engine for Ruthie goes, I wrote that book as a direct response to Charlotte Zolotow’s classic, William’s Doll. The book did well when it first came out, but unfortunately it never went into paperback and is now out of print. (Any takers out there?) Tomboys of all ages really liked that book. Duron: And, now, all these years later, you give us Sparkle Boy (out June 15). Thank you for writing this book, it’s so important that gender creative boys like my son see themselves in literature. What inspired you to write Sparkle Boy? Newman: I was inspired in part by your book, Raising My Rainbow, which I was moved to tears by many, many times. I also learned a lot, especially about the different journeys each family member takes, in addition to the journey taken by the person in the family who is gender creative. Jessie, the older sister of Casey, who is the “sparkle boy” in my book, starts off in one place emotionally at the start of the story, and ends somewhere else. I think this is very important, and shows that everyone goes through a process when someone in the family discovers something about themselves. I was also inspired by attending Family Week (in Provincetown, MA) which is run by the Family Equality Council. I saw so many little boys wearing tutus happily running around, filled with joy at being able to be themselves. One boy’s dad said to me, “I wish my son could wear his tutu every day, not just in Provincetown during Family Week.” And I remembered what you said in your book—that your job as a parent is to make the world a safe place for your son to be himself. That is my intent with Sparkle Boy: to put forth a book that respects, accepts and celebrates everyone’s right to shine! Duron: You started writing books that deal with LGBTQ issues and identities in the 1980s, long before there were LGBTQ shelves in popular bookstores and online booksellers. What was it like writing about LGBTQ issues and advocating through written word back then? Newman: You know, I really didn’t think about it. When I came out, in 1982, my writing just exploded. Previous to that time, I only wrote poetry and considered myself exclusively a poet (I had studied with Allen Ginsberg and Anne Waldman at the Jack Kerouac School of Disembodied Poetics at Naropa Institute in Boulder, Colorado). But in the early 80s, much to my surprise, I wrote a novel called Good Enough to Eat, I was hungry (pun intended!) for books that featured a character like me (a Jewish lesbian) and couldn’t find any, so that’s why I wrote it. I write to explore the world inside me, the world outside of me and the relationship between the two. I followed up that novel with a short story collection called A Letter to Harvey Milk. Each of the nine stories featured a different Jewish lesbian. And I was still writing poetry. I didn’t write these books to make any kind of political statement, though I do think writing as an out lesbian about lesbian characters is a political act. I was just writing stories about my life and the lives of the people in my community. I took the advice of Grace Paley, with whom I also studied, who said, “Write what you know you don’t know about what you know.” And then a lesbian who knew I was a writer stopped me on the street and said, “There are no books that show a family like mine. Someone should write one.” And, thus, Heather Has Two Mommies was born. Duron: Heather Has Two Mommies was a pioneering book. It was the first children’s book to portray a family of two lesbian moms and their child in a positive way. What was the reaction to the book when it was first published? Newman: I had a lot of trouble getting the book published. No publisher would touch it. Finally, my good friend Tzivia Gover and I decided to put the book out ourselves under the auspices of In Other Words, which was her desk top publishing business at the time. We sent out fundraising letters (before the internet! licking envelopes and stamps!) and raised about $4,000 — mostly in $10 donations. Then we found an illustrator through the lesbian gravevine and printed 4,000 copies. I never thought anyone except lesbian moms would be interested in the book, so I was surprised at the huge reaction it received. Lesbian mothers were thrilled with the book. I heard about kids who got three copies for the holidays, who went to bed with the book tucked under their pillow every night. And I heard from people who were less-than-thrilled with the book and stole it from the library and refused to return it, or returned it with its pages glued shut. Part of the book was read into the Congressional Record by Senator Bob Smith of New Hampshire in an attempt to convince other representatives to vote on a bill that would cut federal aid to schools that in his words, “carry out a program or activity that has either the purpose or effect of encouraging or supporting homosexuality as a positive lifestyle alternative.” Duron: You’ve written more than 70 books and your works are pretty evenly divided in terms of intended audience. About half are for an adult audience and half are for children. What are the pros and cons of writing for each audience? Newman: To me, it’s really all writing. What I try to do is let the content dictate the audience (children, middle-graders, teens, adults) and the form (poetry, prose, fiction, non-fiction). As long as I’m writing, I’m happy. The advantage to writing a picture book, is that usually—though not always—it takes less time to write than a chapter book or novel.  The advantage to writing a novel is that I always know what I am going to be working on when I return to my writing notebook the next day (as opposed to starting from scratch every time I finish something short such as a poem or a picture book). What I love about writing for children is that a book such as Heather Has Two Mommies can really make a difference in a child’s life. So many families have told me how important that book was to them because it was the first time their children saw a family just like their own between the covers of a book. That is extremely important and validating to a child. What I love about writing for adults is that often I hear from readers who tell me how my work has touched their lives. I never get tired of hearing that. That’s what it’s all about. Duron: I think it’s important for people to know that you’re an amazing voice for the LGBTQ community through written word and the speaking that you do, but you’re also such an encouraging and nurturing mentor. You help emerging authors and advocates; that’s something not a lot of established authors do. They don’t always want to help other people. Newman: I don’t really understand that. I firmly believe that when one of us succeeds, all of us succeeds. So many people have been kind to me along the way: my mentors, Allen Ginsberg and Grace Paley; the women in my writers group; and so many others, too numerous to mention. The literary life is not an easy one. Authors need to stick by each other and support each other. I am always thrilled when emerging writers I have mentored succeed (shout out to Newbery medalist Kwame Alexander author of The Crossover, and Leah Henderson whose first middle grade novel, One Shadow on the Wall has just been published). Allen and Grace kept in touch with me for years (again, before the internet), always showing an interest in my work and taking me seriously as a writer. That was so important to me. I honor my mentors by paying it forward. Buy Sparkle Boy now!    All Posts books Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Leslea Newman LGBTQ Sparkle Boy Writing About Boys in Skirts: Lori Duron Interviews Lesléa Newman  Well, hello there 2013, what do you have in store for us this year? Mannequin head with human hair that can be heat styled = One of C.J.’s favorite Christmas presents. A friend of mine doesn’t like odd-numbered years because they are typically unlucky for her.  I thought back on my odd-numbered years.  My odd-numbered years include graduation from high school, graduation from college, getting married, having C.J.’s Brother, having C.J. and starting this blog.  If I didn’t want to jinx myself, I’d say that odd-numbered years have always been good to me. Two years ago I started Raising My Rainbow because I had a two-(almost three)-year-old boy who liked “girl toys” and “girl clothes.”  I was full of questions and anxiety.  I didn’t know what was going on with my son and his preferences.  I didn’t know what I was supposed to do as his parent.  I had a million questions but no answers.  I used humor and writing to cope and started to feel my way down a path I hadn’t ever expected to take. Then, things got emotional as my readers educated me and I realized that the simple act of my son playing with a doll could be a signal of much bigger things to come.  Was our son a girl born into the body of a boy?  Was he transgender, transsexual, effeminate, gay, gender queer, gender fluid, gender creative, gender nonconforming, something else?  What do those terms really mean anyway? As parents, my husband and I have asked each other and ourselves questions that we never anticipated.  What if our son is gay?  What if our son is bullied?  What do we do when our third grader threatens suicide because he’s bullied for having a gender nonconforming brother?  Ten years from now, will we have two sons or one son and one daughter? Another favorite Christmas gift? A Monster High bike with bag to hold his granola bars and bracelets. During the last two years, we slowly got to the point where we knew the answer to each of the questions above and dozens of others.  It’s the same answer, no matter the question: We’ll deal with it.  We’ll love, support and provide a safe home for our children no matter what.  Realizing that answer gave us power and reassurance. We’ll deal with it.  We’ll deal with it.  We’ll.  Deal.  With.  It. We began to own our differences.  All of us: Me, C.J.’s Dad, C.J.’s Brother and C.J.  We began to live free of shame.  Then, four months ago, C.J. started kindergarten and stopped owning it.  We’ve watched as our diva son who was once brimming with confidence and self-assuredness realized that his peers had less than favorable opinions about what he likes and wears, about how he talks and walks, about how he sits with his legs crossed like a girl and has a wrist that goes limp when not kept in check. There was a time when our gender creative son didn’t care about what other people thought about him, but we did – big time.  We were stuck caring what others would think or say or do.  He owned it, but we didn’t.  We followed his lead.  We caught up.  And, when we started owning it and not giving a shit about the reactions and judgments of others, C.J. started noticing and caring and adjusting his behaviors accordingly.  It felt like we were two steps behind.  We caught up to him.  We were all at the same point for a time holding hands.  And, then C.J. took a step back, yanking us back with him. Back we went, following his lead.  Loving him, not changing him. He’s been rocking his new beanie day and night. When I started this blog I promised myself that I’d write for a year and reassess.  I did that and decided to continue writing for another year and reassess.  I just spent two weeks doing that.  I’ve decided to give it another year.  And, I’ll need your help, feedback and support more than ever before as we enter a new phase. I hope that you’ll continue to follow and be a part of our adventures.  There’s comfort in knowing that you care and are cheering us on. Let’s make 2013 fabulous! Xoxo, Mom, Dad, Brother and C.J.    All Posts effeminate Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Monster High raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow Reflections: Raising My Rainbow Turns Two  It was the most sincere display of appreciation that my five-year-old son has ever shown.  He looked me straight in the eyes and said a very mature and worldly “thank you.”  The words were full of honesty, relief, happiness and a little bit of anguish. “You’re welcome, baby,” I said looking at him with a smile and masking the pain I was feeling.  “You look so pretty.” My gender creative son was thanking me for buying him a dress to wear to Christmas Eve dinner.  He had eyed the ensemble at Target weeks ago and asked to wear it for Christmas Eve so he could take “fancy pictures by the fireplace and the tree. I told him no.  Not because the outfit was made for girls and he is a boy, but because had I bought it then he would have wanted to wear it immediately and often and when we finally sat down to Christmas Eve dinner it would have been thrashed. He talked about his “Christmas outfit” nonstop and asked everyday if it was time to go buy it. Today was the day.  We got home and both ran up the stairs to my bedroom with its mirrored closets.   I sat on the floor removing price tags while he tore off his “school clothes,” which he wears as a disguise when out in society so that people will think he is all boy.  He wears “school clothes” so that he won’t get teased, have to sit by himself at the lunch tables and so he will get invites to birthday parties.  More than anything he wants to be thought of as “normal.”  But, he’s not. He closed his eyes as I put on the black bubble skirt covered in sequins, the red long sleeved t-shirt that says “JOY” on it in glitter and the black sequined vest.  I spun him to the mirror.  He opened his eyes, took himself in and then thanked me. My first reaction was to smile.  He reminded me of when I was a little girl and wanted a show stopping dress for the holidays.  My dresses were made of scratchy fabric that made noise when I moved.  I wore white socks with lace trim and stiff, shiny Mary Janes.  I learned at an early age that beauty is pain. My son looked sassy and beautiful.  He looked natural, happy and truly comfortable for the first time that day.  Then I felt pain.  If the rest of the world could be more empathetic, accepting, welcoming and kind, my son could be this happy and comfortable all of the time — because then my son could be a boy who dresses like a girl and not have to think twice about it.  The world isn’t like that. Other people can’t see the beauty in my son in a dress.  I haven’t always seen the beauty either.  Two and a half years ago this scene from my life wouldn’t have happened.  I wouldn’t have bought girl clothes for my son.  Never.  Ever.  Back then, I felt uneasy when he played with Barbies.  When he tried to dress feminine, I’d hand him his brother’s masculine hand-me-downs and tell him to put them on.  I didn’t give him choices because I knew that his choices would be pink with sparkles and rhinestones.  His choices would smell like the raspberry vanilla body spray he snuck from my bathroom and hid under his bed. Then I realized that my actions were telling him “you can’t be you because I want you to be what society wants you to be.” My husband and I changed the way we were parenting.  There was something unique about our son that we could choose to support or destroy.  We had to follow his lead.  He led us to the pink aisles at Target; and, that’s not a dangerous, harmful, unhealthy place for a boy to be. My son’s Christmas dress is hanging in his closet.  He checks on it before and after school and a few other times each day.  On Christmas Eve, a dozen members of our family will gather around the table in honor of religious beliefs and to celebrate the passing of one year and the start of another.  It will be the first holiday that my son will join us at the table dressed as a girl.  We won’t care.  We will tell him that he is beautiful, inside and out.  And, we’ll mean it. Apparently C.J. thinks that two Barbies are better than three wise men. *This is my last blog post of the year.  Holiday wishes and greetings to all of you!  Let’s catch up in a few weeks.  xoxo, C.J.’s Mom      All Posts Barbie Christmas Christmas Eve gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting Queerty Raising My Rainbow My Son’s Christmas Dress     Dear C.J.’s Mom,Tomorrow 20 children will not wake up and have a choice as to what shoes to put on. If there was ever a day in history where people who love and advocate for children should come together and shout from the tops of mountains to “let kids be kids” it would be today. If there was ever a day to step back and look with wonder at our children for the joyfully imaginative way they approach their lives it would be today. If there was ever a day to stop and say we only have today, what a gift I have in my son or daughter, I will not let anyone or anything stand in the way of what makes them happy it would be today. I don’t mean to co-op one tragedy to pontificate about another. I only mean to suggest that life is fragile, unpredictable and beautiful. To wring hands and gnash teeth over pink zebra striped flats is such a waste. Such a terrible, painful waste. Tomorrow morning 20 moms and dads will wake up with out little feet to put in shoes. I don’t know what to be more broken about…the senseless deaths of 20 beautiful children or scandalous flats on a beautiful little boy! God bless you and your family! Auntie Mip This was a comment I received in response to my last blog post and the Newton school shootings.  I was planning on writing similar thoughts to post, but I feel like this Raising My Rainbow commenter said it better than I would have. C.J. is in kindergarten and I can’t stop picturing him and his classmates when I think about the tragedy that happened in Newton.  Some people spend so much time and negative energy  judging him and us because he likes to play with “girl toys,” wear “girl clothes” and be treated like a girl.  But, you know what?  He is here, he is happy and he is healthy.  The parents of the 20 children (and the adults) killed yesterday can not say the same.  People would rather trade parenting places me over the parents of the Newton school shooting victims without thought. It should puts things into perspective for people.  I hope it does.  As I put him to bed last night I whispered into C.J.’s ear, as I do every night, “I love you no matter what.”  I hugged him a little longer and thanked the universe that he was still breathing in his room…in his Disney Princess nightgown, cradling his Barbie.         All Posts Barbie Disney Princess gender nonconforming Kindergarten Newton Newton School Shootings parenting If There Were Ever A Day To “Let Kids Be Kids” It Would Be Today  Hi Everybody! FYI, C.J. really wants this for Christmas. In case you were wondering what to get him. Pardon me for being a bit of a flakey, unorganized blogger during this holiday season.  I’ve been very busy managing C.J.’s Christmas expectations.  You see, when he was finished composing it, his wish list was two pages long, front and back, single-spaced with half-inch margins.  He was under the impression that everything that he put on his list would appear under the tree on Christmas morning.  I had to explain how a wish list differed from an order form.  I felt like Scrooge. Anyway, let’s get down to business… Things that caught my attention recently: Move over Toemaggedon!  It’s time for Shoemaggedon!  Yay! Photograph Of Little Boy Wearing Pink Shoes To Preschool Sparks Heated Blogosphere Debate, Huffington Post, 12/11/12 “A viral photograph of a young boy who opted to wear pink shoes on his first day of preschool has sparked intense debate in the blogosphere.” Read what one disapproving blogger wrote about the mother who dared to let her son wear (gasp!) pink zebra-print shoes to school.   My son wears these shoes..and leg warmers, Tinkerbell socks, jean skirt, infinity scarf.. Mom Who Let Son Wear Pink Shoes to Preschool Was Asking for Controversy, TheStir.com, 12/10/12   “I couldn’t help but feel kind of bad for the poor kid.  Because…(he) wound up with people whispering behind his back and making nasty remarks about him. And for those exact reasons…I wouldn’t let my own son wear a pair of pink shoes to school. Because at only 6 years old and being in the first grade, I’m just not sure it’s fair to subject him to being bullied or treated unfairly all because most people associate pink with girls and blue with boys.”  The author of that blog post would hate my way of parenting.  For sure.  That’s okay, unlike that blogger, I would never ask my children to hide their likes just because they might be disliked by others.  The “he’s got to man up” and “well, he’s gotta learn sometime” and “what did he expect?” attitudes of years bygone are harmful to the child who’s different.  I hope more people start to realize that. They.  Are.  Just.  Shoes.  And, you know what?  There are kids in this world with no shoes at all. C.J. on his way to a holiday play. Sometimes it catches me off guard when he looks so masculine. Not last blog post but the one before, I announced a giveaway and called for entries.  The winner gets THE ADVENTURES OF TULIP, BIRTHDAY WISH FAIRY and BACKWARDS DAY — two children’s books written for gender-independent kids and families. And the winner is….Emily (who commented on 11/22 at 4:04 a.m.).  Hi Emily, I’ll email you, check your inbox. The final post of the year will be up next week! Cheers, C.J.’s Mom      All Posts bullying effeminate gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow shoemaggedon TheStir.com Shoemaggedon  It’s hard to show and tell at school when it has increasingly become a place where you have to hide and keep secrets. C.J. taught me that this week. C.J. is this week’s “Special Bear” in his kindergarten class. It’s supposed to be the highlight of the school year for him. Instead it’s been one panic attack after another. This week is all about C.J. If you knew my son at home, you’d assume he’s made for weeks like this when all eyes are on him. At home he acts as if he’s born to shine, sparkle and steal every scene in this feature film called life. When talking about his future, he’s gotten in the habit of starting every sentence with “When I’m famous…” At home, he’s no wallflower. Things are much different at school. This year he works every day to blend in and avoid doing something that will call attention to himself and his gender nonconformity. He’s in constant fear that the wrong classmate will find out that he likes girl stuff. Every day of this week, C.J. is the center of attention. We had the classroom teddy bear with us all weekend. We were supposed to have adventures, take pictures and include them with captions in the class journal for the students to see on Monday. “Let me take your picture with the bear for the journal,” I said on Friday night as C.J. sat eating a bowl of ice cream. “NO! Don’t take my picture! I’m wearing my nightgown! I don’t want them to know I like girl stuff!” “Oh, okay. We’ll start taking pictures tomorrow,” I said. Every photo taken with the bear the next day was well thought out and completely staged. At his request, we had to scan C.J. and the background for “girl clothes” and “girl toys” before he allowed us to take any pictures of him and that damn bear. We are horrible at noticing our boy dressed as a girl or playing with girl toys now. They used to stick out like a sore thumb. Now they don’t. I gladly handed over the bear and journal to C.J.’s teacher on Monday. Then, I realized that for Tuesday, we had to create a custom 11×14 collage of photos of C.J. and a list of his favorite things. We had a questionnaire to guide us. “What are your favorite things to do?” I read off of the questionnaire to C.J. “Dancing and cutting my dolls hair and playing with my dolls and drawing me in beautiful dresses,” he said. I started to write down his answer. I had a feeling that he would stop me. But, if he didn’t, if he was fine with giving his classmates the truth, I would be too. “You can’t write that!” C.J. said. “That’s what I really like, not what I want the class to know I like. Tell them I like to play on the iPad. But, don’t tell them I play the dressmaker app. Or the makeover app.” “Okay. What’s your favorite movie?” “Tangled. But don’t tell them that. Tell them I like Toy Story.” “Okay,” I said as I wrote. “Which Toy Story? 1, 2 or 3?” “Three because it has Barbie in it, but don’t tell them that’s why. Just tell them I like three best.” “Okay. What is your favorite TV show?” “Jessie and Shake It Up. But don’t tell them that. Tell them I like Kickin’ It or maybe Good Luck Charlie is okay.” The simple questionnaire was an exhausting process. The accompanying poster board had to be covered with C.J.’s favorite photos of himself. C.J. insisted that I only use photos of him “looking and acting like a boy.” I imagine that for the vast majority of parents of boys it’s easy to find a picture of their boy looking and acting like a boy. For me it’s not. I struggled and found nine from the last year. In three of them he’s wearing only the color pink (a polo shirt in three shots and board shorts in one). He allowed me to use those. When we were done with the poster board C.J. said it looked “just okay.” “What could we do to make it look better?” I asked him, wanting him to like it. “Make it pink and rainbow and add glitter,” he said. “We can do that,” I replied. “No.” Today he had to take his favorite book to school for his teacher read to the class. At first he was afraid that he’d get teased if he took his real favorite book, but he took it anyway and I’m glad he did. He took Perez Hilton’s The Boy With Pink Hair. “He was born that way-The Boy with Pink Hair…Life is not easy being pink…But when you have a best friend who appreciates your uniqueness and parents who are loving and supportive, you can do just about anything.” — The Boy With Pink Hair Tomorrow he’s supposed to take his favorite toy to share with the class. He won’g do that. He won’t take his cupcake princess doll, his ballerina nutcracker or one of his Barbies. So he’s taking a snow globe and will pretend that he loves it. On Friday he takes his family to share with the class. His dad, brother and I will stand up there with him in front of the class and support him proudly. No matter what he likes in private or public, we like him just the way he is.    All Posts Barbie gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Kindergarten Orange County parenting Perez Hilton Queerty raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow Show and Tell tangled The Boy With Pink Hair Show and Tell Anxiety  Happy Thanksgiving week! Among the many things that I am grateful for are this blog and its readers.  C.J.’s Brother is thankful for his family, his house and his video games. C.J. is thankful for his dolls, his grandma and grandpa, his other grandma and grandpa and lights so he doesn’t fall down in the dark…especially when he is wearing high heels. C.J.’s sassy turkey.We are also thankful for the families with gender nonconforming and LGBTQ kids who we have had the pleasure of getting to know over the last two years. I’ve had a few families contact me recently asking for help in finding gender nonconforming families in their area.  So, if your child is gender nonconforming or LGBTQ and you live in Western Massachusetts or the greater Seattle area of Washington, please email me at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com so that I can set you up on a potential playdate. I want to start helping more families connect, so if you are looking for another gender nonconforming family in your area, please email me with your location so that I can get to work.  This could be fun; I just have to figure out how to do it in a way that is safe and secure for everybody.  My wheels are turning. Now, it’s time for a giveaway!  I recently read two children’s books that were written for gender-independent kids and families that some of you may enjoy. THE ADVENTURES OF TULIP, BIRTHDAY WISH FAIRY follows title-character Tulip as he deals with the birthday wishes of all the nine-year-olds in North America. Tulip receives a wish from a child known as David who wishes to live as Daniela. He doesn’t understand how to help, so he seeks the wise counsel of the Wish Fairy Captain and learns some new Wish Fairy Skills (while also introducing the concept of trans-identified children in a friendly, sympathetic way). BACKWARDS DAY, set on the planet Tenalp, introduces us to a world where there are seventeen seasons, including one where bubblegum falls from the sky for three days and a single day when everything – everything everywhere – is backwards. Andrea looks eagerly forward to Backwards Day every year, so she can turn into a boy for the day. But one year she doesn’t turn along with everyone else. She’s miserable. The very next day, however, she turns into a boy – and stays that way! To enter to win one copy of each book, leave a comment at the end of this post letting me know which gender or LGBTQ organization(s) you are most thankful for.  A winner will be selected randomly by C.J. And, finally, I try to stay on topic here, as much as I struggle to do so in real life.  But, allow me to digress for a moment.  I was recently sent a link to Neil Patrick Harris’s new web series titled “Neil’s Puppet Dreams.”  Neil Patrick Harris and The Jim Henson Company together?  Please, what could be better?  This is going to be huge.  Watch it….but not with the kids around.       All Posts Backwards Day Gender gender creative gender independent gender nonconforming Jim Henson LGBTQ Neil Patrick Harris Neil's Puppet Dreams Raising My Rainbow Thanksgiving The Adventures of Tulip transgender Thanksgiving Housekeeping & Giveaway  “Where are we going?” C.J. asked me.  We were loading into the car after a morning at the gym and we had a few hours to kill before we had to pick up his brother. “Someplace,” I replied. “Let me guess, running errands,” he said looking out the window in boredom. “No. Someplace special. Someplace where you’ve never, ever been before,” I said looking at him with a mischievous smile. “Yay!” A few minutes later, we stood at the open double doors of the nail salon and he looked at me with a huge grin.  He gripped my hand a little tighter in excitement. “Is this the nail store?” he asked. “Yes, this is where you go when you want your nails painted really nice and pretty,” I replied. “I always want my nails painted really nice and pretty,” he said to me quietly. “I know.” C.J. picked these colors for his first pedicure because they reminded him of Monster High. He saw the wall racked with a rainbow of colored polishes and ran over to them.  I informed the receptionist that we wanted two pedicures.  I paused. “C.J., do you want your fingernails and toenails painted or just your toes?” I asked in clarification. “Just my toes, cause when I wear my shoes no one can see them.” “Two pedicures please,” I said. We were escorted to our huge vibrating Japanese massage chairs and foot baths filled with warm water and suds. C.J. was near giggles watching his feet soak and I was near giggles watching my son get his first professional pedicure.  The salon was quiet; all eyes were on us — my son and me on an 11 a.m. pedicure date. “Mama, you need to tell them to get the hard stuff off of your tootsies,” he said giving my feet a disgusted look.  Rude. The pedicure pros got to work on our feet and a frenzy of chatter and laughter started.  I was wishing I were fluent in the language that they were speaking so that I could eavesdrop when I heard the manager walking toward us shaking her head in disapproval.  The girl doing my pedicure lightly smacked my foot getting my attention to ask me a question before the manager got much closer. “Is that a boy or a girl?” she asked, pointing at C.J.  Luckily, he wasn’t really paying attention to anything other than his toes and couldn’t understand her broken English very well anyway. “He’s a boy,” I said, looking at my son in his brother’s hand-me-downed blue athletic shorts and a blue shirt with a police car on the front.  He was looking surprisingly boyish if you ask me.  But, then again, I’m used to seeing him in a skirt, heels, clip-on earrings and lip-gloss. The embarrassed manager said she was sorry and diverted her path towards the back of the salon. “Oh, cause I thought it was a girl.  But, her and her thought it was a boy.  And, her, her and her thought it was a girl.  We were taking bets,” my pedicurist said smiling and pointing to the other salon workers as she went along. She was amused and I was shocked.  I leaned over towards my feet and towards my nail girl so that she could hear me better, but C.J. couldn’t. “Well, he’s a boy, so I guess her and her are the winners,” I said with un-amused tone and look, pointing to the two salon employees who had correctly guessed that my son was a boy.  None of them would make eye contact with me. C.J. was oblivious and I did everything in my power to keep it that way.  Our pedicures were done and we walked out of the salon holding hands with toilet paper rolled up and stuck between our freshly polished toes.  When I saw C.J. staring at his toes and smiling, I smiled too. C.J.’s first professional pedicure. He added tiny butterfly stickers. A few weeks of begging later, I took him to a different salon for a pedicure.  He was selecting a color when his pedicurist approached him. “You don’t want a color,” she said, grabbing him gently by the shoulders and steering him away from the colors and towards the pedicure chair. I stopped her in her path. “Colors are the best part of the pedicure,” I said to her.  “Aren’t they, C.J.?” C.J. and I selected our colors.  Then, C.J. vetoed the purplish-gray color that I had picked for myself and picked another color for me.   I ended up with a C.J.-approved glittering violet and he chose neon pink for himself. We sat in our massive massage chairs and the pedicures began.  I read a People Magazine while he played a fashion design game on my iPhone.  The lady doing his nails kept sneaking a glance at the neon pink bottle of polish that he had selected. She was saying something to her coworker who was busy working on my feet.  They were going back and forth and looking at the neon pink. “Little boy, you sure you want pink? Why not get blue to match your pants?” she finally asked C.J. C.J. looked at me. “Do you want pink?” I asked him. “Yes,” he said. “Then, tell her,” I said. “I want pink,” he said shyly. “He wants pink,” I said looking at her like there was no room for discussion. C.J. smiled at me. “You want design on your toes?  Maybe turkey for Thanksgiving?” C.J. looked appalled.  I can guarantee that my son will never want a turkey painted on his toenails. “I want a flower,” he said. I smiled at him in encouragement and looked at her matter-of-factly. C.J.’s second professional pedicure. I may never be able to get a pedicure alone again. She granted his wish, while talking even more excitedly with her co-worker in the language that I didn’t know.  Again, I wished for a moment that I were fluent in the secret language of pedicurists. Then, I decided that I’m glad that I couldn’t understand what they were saying.  Because I really don’t care.  My son and I were happy, walking to our car with toilet paper worming between our purple and pink toes, walking on our heels with toes pointing up, like that would help the polish dry faster, hand in hand smiling.  My son was happy and that’s all that really matters.    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Monster High Orange County parenting pedicure Raising My Rainbow The Problem With Pedicures  One of the absolute best things about having this blog is that it has enabled my family to meet and forge friendships with other families raising gender nonconforming kids. We’ve found two families locally that we’ve gotten to know since summer. One of our gender nonconforming friends is a sweet little boy named C.K., who I’ve written about before. C.K. is five and wanted to be Minnie Mouse for Halloween. But, he was afraid that people would make fun of him, so he selected a Spiderman costume instead. Then, he was bummed that he didn’t get to be Minnie Mouse. Well, he can be Minnie Mouse at our house! So, C.J. and I hosted our first annual gender nonconforming Halloween costume party. C.K. came dressed as Minnie Mouse and he brought his mom, dad and brother who was a ninja. Our other friend T.L. came. He will be trick-or-treating as Cleopatra on Halloween, but came to our party as a black cat. He brought his mom. C.J. got all decked out in his pink fairy costume and C.J.’s Brother wore his grim reaper costume. I donned the fascinator that I wore when I called in sick to work and watched Will and Kate get married. Nana Grab Bags showed up dressed as a sassy witch. From left: T.L., C.J. and C.K. These boys are going to change the world. We decorated our nails. C.K. painted his own left hand, his mom helped him with his right hand.   We decorated pumpkins.   We decorated cookies. C.J.’s cookie decorating skills know no bounds. T.L. enjoying his cookie while wearing one of my old wigs. Everybody got a goody bag. C.J. and his goody bag. And we had the best Halloween party ever. Boo!    All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Halloween Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Our Gender Nonconforming Halloween Party  Halloween is a reminder of how much our family has evolved. Back in the days when I picked out C.J.’s costumes and gender wasn’t an issue. The Halloween before last, our three and a half year old son wanted to dress up as Snow White and we were panic-stricken. What would people say?  How would people respond?  Though we were tempted to, we would not let our boy dress as a girl for all to see – not even on the one night of the year that is reserved for fantasy, role-play and costumes.  Oh, no, instead I sat him on my lap, scrolled through BuyCostumes.com’s “Boys Costumes” section and manipulated him into thinking that those were his only options. He finally, reluctantly selected a costume.  He slid off of my lap and walked solemnly to his room as I ordered it online.  I felt bad for not letting him dress as he wanted for Halloween, but I also felt like I didn’t have another choice.  What kind of parent let’s their child cross-dress in public? Besides, I argued, C.J. was getting what he really wanted out of a costume, which was to wear makeup and fabric that “felt nice.” He trick-or-treated as a silly-faced skeleton, wearing a black satiny polyester blend getup with a face full of black and white make-up that would have impressed the girls and boys working the MAC counter. It was fine, but it was not Snow White. Halloween was over and I figured that our boy’s “girly phase” would be done by the next October 31, at which time he’d pick a “boy costume” and we would forget about the Snow-White-Skeleton Halloween. Twelve months later, C.J. was four and a half and wanted to dress up as Frankie Stein, (the teenaged daughter of Frankenstein and star pupil at Monster High) for Halloween. By that time we had realized that our son’s penchant for all things girly was not a phase, it was his way of life.  We knew that he was gender nonconforming.   We knew that he was going to want a “girl costume” for Halloween.  We weren’t panic-stricken like the year before, but we were scared. If he were an only child, he could get all dolled up in full drag and rock the hell out of All Hallows’ Eve.  But, he wasn’t an only child. And, while C.J. might not get teased if he wore a “girl’s costume,” his older brother probably would. We were committed to letting C.J. wear the costume of his choice, as we worried incessantly about the effects it might have on his brother. Our one condition was that C.J. had to wear a wig.  His dad and I both felt like we could really hide (protect) him and his brother with the use of a wig. A wig felt like a safety net.  I took C.J. shopping for his costume early in the morning in the middle of the week so that no one would see his selection. C.J.’s Brother was less-than-thrilled about his little brother dressing like a girl and parading himself proudly around our community for Halloween.  For all of us but C.J., the holiday’s happiness was damped by worry. C.J.’s costume is not this slutty. Swear. This year for Halloween, C.J. wanted to dress up as Bloom, a fairy from Winx Club.  None of us gave it a second thought; we just bought the costume.  No manipulative online browsing.  No off-hour trip to the costume store.  No panic.  No worry.  No nothing. The costume didn’t come with a wig and I didn’t get one.  Bloom has red hair and so does C.J.  His isn’t long like hers but I figured that we didn’t need a wig.  I didn’t feel like we needed the protection that a wig felt like it provided last year. C.J. freaked out. “I need a wig!   I want a wig!  If I don’t have a wig people will know I’m a boy.  They’ll know it’s me!” he said mid-meltdown. “Okay, okay, we’ll get a wig.  I promise,” I said. “Today?” “No, but before Halloween.” His dad, brother and I hadn’t given this year’s costume choice a second thought.  And, just as we three got to the point of not caring about what other people might say or think or do, C.J. was just beginning to care, take such things into consideration and modify his behavior accordingly. Now it saddens me to think that next year he might want a “boy costume” to avoid negativity, stares and judgment from other people.  Now, I don’t want my boy to want a boy costume.    All Posts Bloom BuyCostumes.com Costume Frankie Stein gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Halloween Monster High Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Winx Club I Don’t Want My Boy To Want A Boy Costume  At one point last week I was pretty sure that Chick-Fil-A had ruined my family. When the Chick-Fil-A anti-gay controversy broke out during the summer, it was a no-brainer for C.J.’s Dad and I to have a conversation with our sons about the company’s beliefs and decide as a family that we weren’t going to eat there anymore. Our little family took a big stand and let it be known.  Most people assumed our anti-Chick-Fil-A stance was based on our love and support of my gay brother.  It’s a correct assumption, but a limited one.  My husband, my sons and I decided to boycott Chick-Fil-A in love and support of the entire LGBTQ community and, more importantly, because in our house we believe that all people are created equal and deserve to be treated that way.  To us, there is no excuse for hate and discrimination, not even the go-to “the bible told me so” explanation.  Call us crazy. We also wanted to use the situation to teach a life lesson: sometime you have to sacrifice in order to stand up for what you believe in.  Chick-Fil-A has long been a favorite of C.J. and his Brother.  They would miss the food for sure. Our kids agreed with our decision.  Our nine-year-old son wrote a letter to Chick-Fil-A president Dan Cathy.  Our five-year-old son (who is gender nonconforming) understands that Chick-Fil-A isn’t nice to everybody, that they are mean to some people and that that is not okay. My husband and I made it quite clear to those close to us — especially those people who, on occasion, feed our kids when we are not around — that we would not be eating at Chick-Fil-A. That was our decision.  If someone we knew didn’t make the same decision, we were disappointed but we didn’t unfriend them.  We just asked them to get their fill of those homophobic nuggets, sandwiches and waffle fries when we weren’t around. Sometimes you have to agree to disagree. We’ve learned that sometimes that is easier said than done. Last week, a member of our family had a few moments alone with our oldest son and engaged C.J.’s Brother in a conversation about Chick-Fil-A, which lead to the family member explaining the biblical definition of marriage and what the bible says about homosexuality to our nine-year-old. We.  Were.  Pissed. We felt like we had been purposefully betrayed and deceived.  We felt like our son had been part of talk that was inappropriate because of our beliefs, his age, the topic and the family member’s knowledge that we are LGBTQ allies through and through.  And, none of that takes into account that our son’s beloved uncle is gay and his brother has a very high likelihood of being gay or transgender. Once we took a few days and few steps back, we realized that we assume that people in our family’s lives will behave as we expected them to. “The easiest way to get your expectations unmet is to fail to communicate those expectations to the person who is supposed to meet them,” someone said to me recently. We had never clearly communicated how we expected the adults in our family’s lives to conduct themselves around our children when it came to matters of religion and being LGBTQ. We sat down with the family member and, for the first time, said out-loud what we expect of them and others.  Initially, it felt weird to do it.  But after we did it, it felt weird that we hadn’t done it earlier. We had never said out-loud to the people in our lives: 1.  Please do not talk about religion to our children. We believe that God is more about love, kindness and inclusiveness than he is about fear, hate and shame.  We believe that he created each person perfectly and without flaw and that, more than anything, he wants each person to be treated that way.  And, if judgment is necessary for entrance into heaven?  It’s God’s to give, not ours. Whether you agree with our religious views or not, let’s all play it safe and refrain from engaging children in conversations meant to sway them.  If you feel like it’s your calling to spread the word of your God or your religion, please don’t spread it onto our children. 2.  If you have something unkind (at best) or hateful (at worst) to say about the LGBTQ community we have to insist that you do not say it around our children or us.  We’ve ended friendships for less and do realize that sometimes family ties are a little trickier to deal with. All that being said, anyone – family or not – who teaches our children that their uncle and other LGBTQ people aren’t equal, are sinful and should be excluded from things like civil rights will be eliminated from our lives. 3.  Because our child is gender nonconforming and has been for more than half of his life, statistically speaking he has about a 75 percent chance of being a member of the LGBTQ community.  When our family is around, please conduct yourself as if a member of the LGBTQ community is in your presence. 4.  Also, because of his gender nonconformity, compared to his peers he has a much higher likelihood of attempting suicide, experiencing major depression, abusing substances, developing addiction and practicing unsafe sex and behaviors.  We can lower the likelihood of all of those things being in his life if we protect him from bullies.  Bullies aren’t just at school; all too often they are in the home.  Our home and family has to be a safe, loving and accepting place for him.  Always.   If you can’t help create that kind of environment then you are probably helping to destroy it – which means you shouldn’t be a part of it at all. Thankfully, our family member listened to our expectations and agreed to meet them in the future.  We agreed to forgive and try to move forward.  We also agreed that Chick-Fil-A wasn’t what almost ruined our family – that family member’s actions and our failure to communicate our expectations did. * * * Would you allow someone with different religious beliefs to talk to your children about their beliefs and religion without you around?    All Posts Chick-Fil-A Dan Cathy gender nonconforming God homosexual homosexuality and religion LGBTQ Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow Religion How Chick-Fil-A Almost Ruined My Family  Following are highlights from our month on Instagram. Click here for pictures, thoughts and happenings from the entire month. If you’re on Instagram, follow me. If you already follow me, thank you! My wife gets a load of emails and messages from people asking where our son’s father is, as though I couldn’t possibly be around and still allow a male son to display female behavior. To those people I say, I’m right here fathering my son. I want to love him, not change him. My son skipping and twirling in a dress isn’t a sign that a strong male figure is missing from his life; to me it’s a sign that a strong male figure is fully vested in his life and committed to protecting him and allowing him to grow into the person who he was created to be. I may be a “guy’s guy,” but that doesn’t mean that my son has to be. — Matt     What did I expect when I was pregnant and learned I was having another boy? More of the same. Life on repeat. A life of hand-me-downs — everything from clothes to toys to hobbies. When CJ started showing us that he was differently gendered. I grew frustrated and scared. He wasn’t a card I expected to be dealt. But, as Cheryl Strayed says, “you don’t have a right to the cards you believe you should have been dealt. You have an obligation to play the hell out of the ones your holding.” I’m holding CJ. A child with special and unique needs because of his gender expression and gender identity. Because he is a boy who is a girl at heart. And, because of what the future could very well hold for him. And, you know what? I’m going to play the hell out of this fabulous, unexpected card I was dealt. I’m going to love him, support him, encourage him, build him up and let him soar. I’m going to hustle for him and kids like him. Don’t sit at the table staring at what you think is a shitty hand, start rearranging those cards and making plans to play the hell out of them. It’s your obligation. Own it.     Me: What’s this? CJ: The cover of the new comic book I’m writing. Me: How and why does RuPaul save the day? CJ: I’m not going to tell you yet. But, let’s just say it has something to do with Jinkx Monsoon, a couture gown and grape juice.     Her: We’re having a gender reveal! Me: No, you’re having a genitalia reveal. Parents-to-be CAN’T reveal their unborn baby’s gender. In general, gender is what’s in a person’s head that tells them that they’re male or female (or both or neither or some unique combination). A child’s concept of gender starts to develop around age three. So, a child’s third or fourth birthday would be a good time for parents to host a gender reveal. Parents-to-be CAN reveal their unborn baby’s sex. In general, sex is what’s between a person’s legs that tells them they’re male or female. That’s what’s truly revealed at a gender reveal. The fetus’s sex. Its genitals. Its penis or vagina. (Or both if the baby is intersex.) When I attend gender reveal parties and the parents-to-be yell “It’s a boy!,” I want to yell back “The baby has a penis!” When they shout, “It’s a girl!,” I want to shout “The baby has a vagina!”     It’s amazing how fast time moves when you’re watching kids grow. The human who made me a mother is 14 years old today. He asked for an electric guitar and spent the weekend as a production assistant on a music video set in Los Angeles. I’d never ask for him to stop growing — the alternative is my worst fear. I just wish I could slow things down a bit, get him to hug me a little longer and not be in such a damn hurry to be the amazing man he’s destined to be.   Shoe shopping with CJ is not fun. His feet are super narrow. One foot is half a size bigger than the other. He’s right smack-dab in the middle of little kids and big kids sizes. Oh, and sometimes he wants shoes from the girls’ section and sometimes he doesn’t. But the shoes in the boys’ section are “too serious” and “no fun.” Our tried-and-true solution? Buy plain-ish shoes and customize them. We got shoes from Nordstrom Rack and added velvet shoelaces by Aldo (a different color for each shoe, of course). Then, we added silver star and lightening bolt sticker patches from The Trend bar.     Young CJ: I’m going to go dress up like a superhero. Me: Cool. Young CJ: Okay. I’m dressed. Now take a picture of how superhero I am.     I thought he’d never be a reader. It didn’t come easy to him. And, in first grade, his teacher taught him that there were “boys books” and “girls books.” Teachers, please don’t do that. Then, when he started reading the Dork Diaries series, kids at school made fun of him for reading “girls’ books.” Now, in fourth grade, he doesn’t care what people say about the books he chooses. Lately he’s been tearing through gymnast biographies. “People at school think I’m a lady anyway. So, they don’t care what I read.”       That time CJ discovered the “big eyes” art of Margaret Keane and was so inspired that he did his makeup to look like a big-eyed waif from one of her paintings.    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming gender reveal Instagram LGBTQ Month In Review Orange County parenting Our Month In Review: May 2017  Sixteen months ago I asked a question that got a decent amount of attention on the internet: Son scootering the sidewalk. “Do you think that it is possible for a homosexual person to not have to come out of the closet.  I don’t mean stay closeted for always and ever.  I mean never even enter the closet.  For instance, I’ve asked my oldest son if he thinks anybody in his class is cute.  I’m careful how I phrase it.  I don’t ask if he thinks any of the girls are cute.  I leave it open so that he can answer honestly.  Do you think an LGBT youth could grow up and never step foot in the closet (at least with immediate family), thus making the coming out process (with the immediate family) obsolete?  Can a family be so okay with homosexuality that, say, a fifth grade boy could tell his mom very comfortably that the boy in class in a Chargers jersey and still outgrowing his baby fat (or Baby Phat, who knows) is totes amazeballs?”            — Raising My Rainbow, June 2, 2011 A lot of people have told me that it is possible, especially in a family like ours.  My brother grew up feeling like he was hiding in the closet for as far back as he can remember…which is pretty much around the time that he wanted a Wonder Woman doll for Christmas and longed to dress in drag for Halloween.  The thought of my son bypassing a good amount of the guilt, shame, fear and secretiveness that my brother grew up with made me happy and made me feel like his father and I (and the rest of the people in his life) were/are doing something right.  If my son were LGBTQ and didn’t want to step foot in the closet he didn’t have to.  Hooray! Sons savoring the sunset. But, all of that was when my son was four-years-old and him realizing his sexuality seemed like a thing for the distant future.  Then, Amelia (who writes for the Huffington Post’s Gay Voices section and with whom I’ve gotten to know via email) started writing about her son who is seven years old and openly identifies as gay.  He came out when he was six.  Then, an awesome mom who I met through my blog wrote last week about her son and how he recently declared that he is in love with another boy.  He is six.  He is in kindergarten.  C.J. is almost six.  C.J. is in kindergarten. I used to think that we had until middle school (plus or minus a year or two) to learn our son’s sexuality.  What if it happens in kindergarten?  What if it happens tomorrow? There is a new hesitation in me.  If he is LGBTQ, I wanted my son to be out of the closet – never in it – with us, his family.  I hadn’t factored in how he would handle it with the other seven billion people on earth…at age 6, then 7, then 8, then….? If my son were to come out to us in the next five to ten years, what do I tell him about being open about his sexuality?  That it’s a private matter, which only his family needs to know about? What would I tell him if he were heterosexual?  Would I parent him the same? If I encourage him to keep a part of himself a secret, am I pushing him into the closet? Do I explain to him the dangers of being out to certain types of people – his bullying schoolmates included?  Is a child equiped to fully understand that? How do I teach my son that he’s perfectly made, raise him with no shame, encourage him to be the most authentic version of himself…and then tell him to keep quiet about it at school and on the playground? If C.J. is LGBTQ, I’ve always wanted him to be out and free and proud.  Knowing that that moment may be closer than we thought, what I really want is for my son to be safe.  And, sometimes it feels like he can’t be out and free and proud and safe all at the same time.    All Posts Main Site Header Amelia bullying Gay Gay pride Gender Stereotypes homosexual Huffington Post Orange County raising a gay child Raising gay child Come Out Of The Closet Son…Then Go Back In…  Today my son drew himself as a boy for the first time in his life.  He’s five and a half years old.  For that many years, when he has drawn himself, he has drawn himself as a girl. In the mediums of crayon, colored pencil and marker, our son is a beautiful girl with long red hair, a big puffy ball gown the color of cotton candy and a tiara with a gigantic heart-shaped stone front and center.  Sometimes he’s a sassy girl in a jean skirt, black leather jacket and knee-high boots.  Sometimes he’s a girl going to school in a hot-pink t-shirt dress and purple high top sneakers with turquoise socks peaking out. It took his dad and me a while to get used to seeing our son’s self-portraits.  For a long time there was the urge to correct him, to remind him that he is a boy and his renderings weren’t accurate.  We fought that urge until it wasn’t there anymore.  Feelings of uneasiness popped up in us here and there when it was time for arts and crafts, especially when there were other people around.  I’ve had to remind myself that you never tell an artist that his or her art is bad or wrong — art can’t be those two things (especially when you are five). Being acutely aware that children who continually, over an extended period of time draw themselves as the opposite sex are more likely to be transgender, we have always wondered if and when the day would come when our boy would draw himself as a boy looking like a boy.  We imagined that if it ever happened we would feel a sense of relief and happiness.  Then, it happened and we were nothing but sad. C.J. has just started kindergarten and at his school every kindergartner is matched up with a “Kinderbuddy,” an older student at the school who will see C.J. on a regular basis throughout the year to read to him, play with him and mentor him.  Hopefully they will have a mutually beneficial and special relationship. Because the school tries to match up Kinderbuddies based on sex/gender, C.J.’s Kinderbuddy is a boy.  Because C.J.’s sex and gender aren’t in total alignment, that process for matching up Kinderbuddies isn’t exactly ideal. On their first day of meeting, the Kinderbuddies had to sit together and draw a picture of themselves together.  That’s when it happened; C.J. drew himself as a boy next to his boy Kinderbuddy. “Mommy, I got a Kinderbuddy today.  And, he’s so cool!  He’s a teenager!” C.J. said after school.  By “teenager” he meant “sixth grader.” He showed us the picture that they had drawn together.  We didn’t recognize our son.  We looked at each other in shock. “Hey, Buddy…how come you drew yourself as a boy?” C.J.’s Dad asked casually. “Oh, that’s because I didn’t want my Kinderbuddy to know that I like girl stuff,” C.J. said matter-of-factly. Our hearts sank.  We had always thought that things would feel more right, more normal, on the day that C.J. finally drew himself as a boy, but things didn’t.  Things felt sad because our son had to do it out of self-preservation.  He did it to adapt and conform.  He did it to hide his true self.  It felt like he had lost some of his innocence. Diane Ehrensaft, an expert on raising gender nonconforming children, once wrote: “Gender creative children are blessed with the ability to hold on to the concept — that we all had one time in our lives — that we were free to be anything we wanted – boy, girl, maybe both.” With that drawing, it felt like our son was losing his grip on the concept that he is free to be anything he wants to be.  Was he losing his grip?  Or, was he tightening his grip on the concept and exercising control over when it could be on display and when it couldn’t? C.J. didn’t want to hang his Kinderbuddy drawing on the fridge or his bedroom door for all to see like he usually wants to do with his art.  He wanted to throw it away. “Why?” I asked. “Cause that’s not really me,” he said as he sat in the sun at our dining room table, drawing himself with a side ponytail, purple shirt with a pink heart on it and an orange skirt.    All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming kinderbuddy Kindergarten Orange County parenting Queerty self portraits transgender My Son Draws Himself As A Girl  C.J. and I had one MAJOR summer project and we finished just before Labor Day, which means we made our deadline.  Barely.  The project?  A total room makeover fit for a gender creative boy who is obsessed with Monster High. When I was pregnant with C.J. and we found out that we were having another boy, we created what we thought was an awesome space for him.  Walls filled with hand-painted clouds, various street signs and car-themed bedding from Pottery Barn.  We had been waiting for him to notice that his room didn’t suit him, he did in May and I promised that once school was out, updating his room with some new furniture from 122 Design would be our summer project together.  We had a ridiculous amount of fun doing it.  Mother/son bonding at it’s best. Before: Right side of the room and C.J.’s bunk beds. BTW, he prefers the bottom bunk ever since he was on the top bunk and had a run-in with the ceiling fan. Score: Ceiling Fan 1, C.J. 0 Before: Left side of the room. Snooze. PREPARE TO BE JEALOUS… After: Left side of the room. Hand painted by yours truly based on the pattern on the Monster High napkins we had at C.J.’s 5th Bday bash. My hand cramped for days. After: Right side of the room. C.J. still sleeps on the bottom bunk. Score remains: Ceiling Fan 1, C.J. 0 After: Poster and frame from Wal-Mart = Super Fancy + Super Cheap After: Monster High bedding is supposedly in limited release right now and will hit stores by the end of the year, don’t you think Mattel should hook C.J. up with some threads for his bed? (We’ve been to EVERY Target in our county looking for the bedding, they say it’s out there somewhere…..I can’t find it.) After: More Wal-Mart fanciness. After: Hands down C.J.’s favorite part of the room makeover is this lamp. We waited all summer for it to go on sale at Target and last Thursday it happened. Our summer was complete. 1    All Posts Mattel Monster High C.J + C.J.’s Mom = Interior Design Superstars  Hi! I don’t know you and I won’t know you until after Labor Day, but I just wanted to take a minute to introduce myself and my son to you.  I’m C.J.’s Mom and my son C.J. is gender nonconforming.  I used to shy away from telling people that before they got a chance to meet my awesome child, but, over the years I’ve found that it’s better to tell some people right up front — especially his teachers.  Plus, he has told me that he prefers for me to make the announcement ahead of him.  So, there you have it. C.J. drew himself as a kindergartner. Please don’t think that I’m crazy or that my son is crazy or that we are weird.  It’s okay to think that we are different.  We are different, we own that and hope that people will see us being different and come to realize that our version of different is not scary or bad, but good and lovable. Anyway, as C.J. explains it, he is a boy who only likes girl stuff and sometimes likes to be treated like a girl.  He will show up to school dressed in boy clothes, albeit usually pink and purple “boy clothes” that I get on the sale rack because very few boys seem to want the pink polo shirts, purple t-shirts and magenta skinny jeans that retailers take a gamble on.  He likes to wear girl socks and safely tucks them inside of his shoes.  They peek out.  You’ll see. Sometimes he accessorizes with beaded jewelry of his own creation or that he has chosen with the utmost care out of his Rapunzel jewelry box.  I’ve informed him that I’d rather he not wear his clip on earrings to school because he might lose them and would be heartbroken.  His lunch box is decorated with Monster High characters and has been his most prized possession since he got it at Target three weeks ago. I tell you all of these details so that you know what to expect on that first day of school.  And also so that you will hopefully see how much thought goes into his getting ready each morning.  Every morning he asks “Are the kids going to tease me today?”  He’s asked me that question every sunrise for more than year and it breaks my heart that he has to worry about getting teased and because, every morning, I don’t have an honest answer.  All I can say is “I don’t know, baby.  I hope not.” My sweet son isn’t trying to make anybody uncomfortable; he’s trying to make himself comfortable, in a body and soul that don’t always feel in alignment.  Imagine that feeling. C.J. on a swing at the kindergarten playground. I’m sure I seem incredibly high maintenance, but please know that I’m never aiming to make your life more difficult, I’m trying to make my son’s life less difficult.  We don’t want to be seen as a liability.  In our eyes it’s not our family against you and the school and the district.  It’s you and us against the world.  We are on the same team. Those 20+ other little five- and six-year-old team members in your class?  I’m not asking you to educate them on gender or sex or the difference between the two.  However, I do think that you have a responsibility to teach them about empathy, kindness and acceptance. If you have any questions about gender nonconforming kids, please ask.  I love, love, love to share what I know with others, especially those who are in my son’s life.  So, talk to me, ask me questions, tell me your concerns, let’s figure this our together. In the meantime, expect my son to draw himself as a girl, get his pronouns mixed up, have a hard time deciding which bathroom to use, always choose pink if it’s an option and become uncomfortable if you divide the class by boys and girls.  He’ll do all of those things one day…and then he may not do them next.  His gender fluidity is just that: fluid. Finally, please don’t gossip about us. If I had a dollar for every time someone asked me what the other moms at school think about us I could start a private school for kids like C.J.  I don’t care what the other parents think about us and I don’t have time for gossip, so please, respect our privacy. Anyway, we’re hopeful for the school year that is about to begin and can’t wait to see our son transform into a kindergartner. All our best, always, C.J.’s Mom (and C.J. and C.J.’s Dad)    All Posts Main Site Header gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Kindergarten Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Dear C.J.’s Kindergarten Teacher  Two or three days ago I read a “gender lesson” created by Darlene Tando, Licensed Clinical Social Worker, for teachers to present in schools based on the needs of gender nonconforming children.  I haven’t been able to stop thinking about this lesson and what an excellent tool it is for teachers, so I’ve reblogged it here with Tando’s permission.  I can’t even explain to you how happy I would be if every teacher at C.J.’s school gave this lesson to their students during the first week or two of school.   (BTW, there’s a PDF at the end for easy printing, sharing and posting.) Gender Blog by Darlene Tando, LCSW I created this “gender lesson” for teachers to present in schools based on the needs of gender nonconforming children I see in my private practice and those I read about online. Please share with any and all classrooms/teachers! Below is the lesson, and following that will be a PDF with the lesson and a list of “expectations” that can be posted in the classroom. This lesson was created in particular for those teachers who have gender nonconforming children in their classrooms. However, it is my belief that this curriculum is needed in ALL classrooms, to change society’s stereotypes, reduce stigmatization of children, decrease bullying, and increase acceptance of each other. This lesson is to be presented at the very beginning of the school year to set standards of expectations for behavior, and can be reviewed as needed throughout the school year. It should be appropriate for grades K-5; please modify… View original post 846 more words    All Posts   Hey Everybody, Instead of putting up a blog post this week, I’m here to ask you to do something for me.  Two things actually.  Pretty please…. 1.  CNN has submitted a panel for SXSW 2013 which assembles some of the coolest moms I know — Amelia (Huffington Post), Nerdy Apple (“My Son is Gay”), Kelly Byrom (CNN) and me — to discuss new media as a tool for parents of the youngest members of the LGBTQ community. We need your votes to help get the panel selected by the SXSW conference planners.  Please visit: http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/vote/2637 and give us the thumbs up.  You may need to sign up to vote, I promise you it is a very quick process. 2.  I’ve been nominated as one of Southern California’s Top 25 Bloggers by Circle of Moms.  Will you please vote for me here, too?  No sign up needed.  Click here, select the purple “Pending Approval” tab in the middle of the page, find my blog and click on the thumbs up sign.  You can vote every 24 hours for the next four days. Thank you, thank you, thank you for your support.  I’d be out there pressing the flesh and holding babies to earn your votes, but it’s 96 degrees outside and the pool is calling. Happy Summer! C.J.’s Mom    All Posts Circle of Moms CNN Huffington Nerdy Apple SXSW Vote for C.J.’s Mom!  Occasionally, a moment will just melt my freaking heart. It happened to me last week and my heart is still all warm inside. Popsicle Princesses My son was up in a tree house with a new friend he had met just hours before.  C.J. was wearing a dress that had a big, full lilac skirt and a bodice made of black velvet with delicate purple and pink flowers embroidered on it.  His new friend, C.K., was wearing the most amazing Cinderella knock-off I have ever seen, complete with gathered tiers and a sweetheart neckline. They were both barefoot with faces stained from their homemade berry popsicles.  They sat with their backs to us two moms.  They whispered to each other and giggled often.  I could have died of happiness at the sight. C.J. and C.K. both have older brothers, who were approaching the base of the tree house.  C.J. hopped up, threw open the white shutters and yelled “Hey!  You boys!  Stay out of our garden!” “Yeah, stay out of our garden!” C.K. yelled from behind C.J.  The white shutters slammed shut and uncontrollable giggles wafted over to the deck where I was sitting. The older brothers looked at us moms and we just shrugged.  Yes, I thought, stay out of their garden, stay out of their way, they are having the best day ever. A few weeks earlier, C.K.’s Mom had been looking for play groups in Orange County for gender nonconforming kids (there aren’t any) when she found my blog.  What are the chances that we live just seven miles apart? We talked via phone, email, text and scheduled a play date.  I told C.J.‘s Dad that we were off to play with a boy who likes to play with girl stuff, left the address of our destination and set out with managed expectations.  Before I knew it, the front door opened and we walked into a house that is home to no girl, two boys, lots of pink, an enviable dress-up collection and a four-foot-high, multi-floor, all-pink castle.  A pink princess tent takes up most of the family room. Monster High Manicures C.K. flitted down the stairs in a pink terrycloth sundress.  C.J. looked at me.  I knew what he was thinking and I nodded and smiled at him, silently acknowledging that, yes, he owns the same exact dress in turquoise. C.K. is petite, with olive skin, dark hair buzzed for the hot days of summer and the sweetest way about him.  There’s an innocence about him that you want to protect and keep intact.  Something about him asks politely to be treated delicately; and when you’re with him, you can’t imagine treating him any other way. The four brothers started playing immediately.  C.K. had requested via text — because that’s how kids do it these days — that C.J. bring some “girl stuff” to play with.  C.J. brought his life-size plush ballerina doll (which was $14.99 at Ralph’s in December and is quite a nappy embarrassment at this point), a Sleeping Beauty Barbie (who also looks like she’s been through the ringer) and Ghoulia Yelps from Monster High (who lost her top sometime ago and usually has her red bowling shorts around her knees, but don’t you know her wedge sneakers are always perfectly in place!).  The two boys discussed in great detail My Little Pony, Care Bears and Strawberry Shortcake as the older brothers sprayed each other in the face with the garden hose and chased each other with plastic snakes. C.K.’s Mom and I compared our lives.  When did C.K. start liking “girl stuff?”  Age two and a half or three.  Same with C.J.  Does C.J. like to dance?  Oh, yes.  C.J. wears a tutu to dance class?!  Yes.  Can’t C.K.?  No.  How sad!  We worry about the older brothers.  We worry about bullies and we worry about school.  Is it jarring now for you to see him in boys clothes?  Yes!  Doesn’t it feel so much more natural to see them in feminine attire or doing some thing feminine?  Yes!  We worry about who and when to tell that our son is gender nonconforming.  Do you like the term gender nonconforming?  How about gender creative?  How about gender fluid?  How about gender independent?  How about gender identity disorder?  No! Spending time with this family felt natural and easy.  Over the course of our marathon, three-hour playdate (which I assumed would more closely resemble a 5K), C.K. changed once every hour.  From pink terrycloth sundress to black leotard with tutu to full-on Cinderella ball gown to close the show.  C.J. wanted in on the action; he wanted to slip out of his tie-dyed rainbow shirt and into that lilac and velvet number he spied on C.K.’s miniature garment rack. Ever the gracious host, C.K. showed C.J. to a room where he could change in privacy.  When C.J. emerged, all dolled up and glowing, C.K. gasped out loud. “C.J., you look beautiful!” he said in sincere amazement. “Thank you,” C.J. said.  He was trying to be modest, but he was feeling it, he felt beautiful. Shoe Sharing Sillies C.K. offered C.J. some of his jewels.  C.J. slid a heart-shaped, pink-stoned ring onto his finger.  C.K. clipped on chandelier earrings and applied some Clinique lipstick.  C.J. had serious 99 Cent Store earring envy. “Man, I just can’t stop thinking about those earrings,” C.J. said later, on the way home.  He was in the back seat with his legs crossed, right over left, like my mother always told me a lady should sit. “Sometimes it’s hard not to think about something,” I said, as I pictured the two small boys making their way up to that tree house, with that garden that those pesky older brothers wouldn’t stay out of.  They were way up high, dressed to the nines and my heart melted for my son in the late afternoon sun. * * * Other things you should be reading this week: Pretty In Pink: An article by an amazing dad of a gender nonconforming son.  It begs the question I’ve been asking a lot lately….Does standing up for human decency make a person an activist? What’s So Bad About a Boy Who Wants to Wear a Dress?:  My answer is “nothing,” of course…Nothing at all is bad about a boy who wants to wear a dress.    All Posts Main Site Header bullying Care Bears Disney Princess gender creative gender nonconforming Monster High Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Strawberry Shortcake My Son’s Playdates Include Manicures and Formal Dresses  Dear Mr. Dan Cathy, My uncle is gay.  I love my uncle and his boyfriend and all of his friends. We have fun and hangout. I don’t think it is right for you to give money to stop my uncle from getting married. People who are gay are humans just like us. They are not different in any way.  They are just people who want to be in love and get married to people of the same sex.  I feel sad for my uncle because he should have the same rights as me. This is just like when black people didn’t have the same rights as white people. They were born the way they were born and should have the same rights as us. This is why I think you should stop all this nonsense.  Gay people should be treated with equal rights. I’m going to tell other people that they shouldn’t eat at Chick-Fil-A. I can’t believe you said the things you said, because you say you are a Christian and you are supposed to act rightful and respectful and not say that people aren’t created equal. Especially gays and lesbians.  I’m a Christian too. When you say mean things, gay people get their feelings hurt and when that happens Jesus wishes he could do something to help them. Like make a miracle. When you get to heaven I think that Jesus will say “you made the wrong decision, man.” I used to eat at Chick-Fil-A a lot and now I don’t want to eat there until gay people win in the end.  Now I’m going to eat at subway. It’s healthier anyway. Sincerely, C.J.’s Brother, Age 9 Orange County, Calif. Former Chick-Fil-A Foothill Ranch Customer    All Posts Main Site Header Chick-Fil-A civil rights Dan Cathy equal rights Gay homosexual Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow What My Son Has to Say to Dan Cathy of Chick-Fil-A  Staff meetings.  Although I’ve heard them referred to as “staff infections” or “stiff meetings” by my friends, I don’t mind them.  Our amazing administrative assistant brings in a homemade coffee cake and our department of eight fun females and two token males go around the table and often get sidetracked with one of us sharing a story from the weekend such as walking into a new sex shop unknowingly because it had a fabulous window display, the affordability of massage treatments in Thailand and the current bath salts phenomenon that has us all afraid we will be eaten by a person who is under the influence. Our fearless leader tries to keep us on track, but it’s no easy task. As we went around the conference room reporting our various works in progress we got off topic (per the usual) and started talking about the guy who works on our floor in another division of the company who yells at himself (or some figment of his imagination) during the breaks he takes in the back parking lot.  Everybody laughed.  I’ve never seen him; I’m not full-time, so I miss a lot of the good stuff, like employee appreciation breakfasts, white elephant gift exchanges and, apparently, solo tirades that are growing increasingly alarming. “Oh, and what about the she/he?!” someone said. My heart got hot.  I held my breath.  I knew who they were talking about.  I didn’t say anything. “Oh my god. I know!!!!  A year or so ago “it” was using the women’s restroom and washing “her” or “his” or “whatever” hands next to me, and the other day I saw “it” using the men’s room!  I wonder if “their” boss knows about that?” a co-worker said. “What’s the deal with that?! Did she/he get permission to switch bathrooms?” someone else asked. “Ewwww, that is so wrong.  Just pick one, man, are you a guy or a girl?!” said one of the men in our department. A co-worker who knows more about C.J. than most people looked at me in alarmed sympathy. I felt like everyone in the room was talking about my son. I felt the need to speak up for the, what I’m educated-guessing to be, female to male transgender person down the hall.  But part of me wanted to say nothing.  It used to be easier to say nothing, now it’s not. I looked at my grossed-out coworker guy.  At the last staff meeting, he showed us pictures of himself holding his newborn son.  He has no idea if that sweet baby in his arms’ gender and sex align. He could be holding a gender nonconforming child or a transgender or transsexual little being.  He has no idea what he could be in for.  No new parents do. “HE appears to be a female to male transgender person,” I said, my heart racing as every eye turned to look at me.  I’m usually light-hearted at work, the person to crack jokes while working my ass off.  I’m serious about my work, but not my demeanor.  I caught most of the people in the room off guard with my serious tone. “What does that mean?” someone asked. “Transgender means that a person’s sex, what’s in their pants, and their gender, what’s in their brain, don’t match up.  It happens during the person’s creation.  He is actually brave for transitioning from presenting as a female to presenting as a male,” I said. Crickets.  All eyes on me.  I’ve never been that serious with this group in my life.  The grossed-out coworker guy with the newborn gave me a disgusted look. Then the person next up to report on their workload broke the silence with a list of assignments.  I wanted to leave the room.  Maybe I shouldn’t have said anything. “That was so awkward!” I said to my C.J.-loving department friend later in the day. “I know. I’m sorry,” she said sympathetically. “It’s just hard. I feel like I have to educate people and stick up for people like C.J.  I can’t just sit back,” I said. “I know.” Sometimes I feel safe in certain places.  Like they are separate from my family life of gender issues.  I felt that way at work.  Few know about C.J.’s creativeness with gender.  Work was a place where I could let it all go the most.  When my two worlds collided it felt overwhelming.  I went home and told C.J.’s Dad about the staff meeting.  It was still really bothering me.  My grossed-out coworker guy with the newborn was still bothering me. “You know, you don’t always have to be an advocate. People say shit about gays and lesbians and trans people all the time at my work, I just have to ignore them because I’m not going to get into it. I’m not going to let them know about my son. They don’t deserve to,” C.J.’s Dad said. I can’t do that.  I wish it were that easy.  I never thought I’d be an advocate for anything.  It seemed exhausting. Now I know that I was wrong and right.  I was wrong.  I would become an advocate.  I was right.  It is exhausting.    All Posts Main Site Header gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Staff Meeting transgender As If Staff Meetings Weren’t Awkward Enough  To grandmother’s house we go. #14hourdrive #cabinfever Back in April I was contacted by Ravali Reddy, a super-smarty student at Stanford University who is an undergraduate communication major (class of 2014, whoot whoot!) and a huge fan of Raising My Rainbow. She wanted to write about our family as a narrative story for the magazine journalism course in which she was enrolled.  I’m a former communication major myself, at a school much lesser-known than Stanford, one with a religious affiliation that might disown me as an alumni if they found out about this blog.  I kindly obliged the request and granted Ravali access to our family that I had never given any member of the media before or since.  I’m glad I did.  Click here to read her finished piece.   My boys fell in love with Ravali — it probably had something to do with the fancy kites she gave them and the carousel rides she took them on.  They are not above bribery. We’re visiting Grandma and Grandpa Colorado, so you may not hear from me for a week or so — partly because I’m going to chill during my vay-cay and partly because they are apparently in the running for the world’s slowest wi-fi and, frankly, I don’t have the patience to upload a post plus pictures.  It’s like watching paint dry, water heat to a boil, Lindsey Lohan try to stay sober. Cheers from an unpaved road near the Continental Divide, C.J.’s Mom    All Posts Colorado Peninsula Press Stanford University Exclusive Article About C.J.’s Family  We’re at a restaurant for dinner. The server approaches our table with piping hot entrees and starts placing them in front of us. “And, here are her chicken strips,” she says as she places a basket of food in front of C.J. “Thank you.” That’s our reply when our son is misgendered, when someone assumes he’s a she. We ignore it. It happens nearly once a day. It happens when he’s dressed masculine and it happens when he’s dressed feminine. It happens when his hair is a sweaty, knotty mess after two hours of gymnastics and it happens when his hair is clean and in a neat French braid. It happens when his fingernails are painted and it happens when their not. We have a rule that we don’t correct people when they misgender C.J. It’s not our rule actually. It’s his. We just follow it. We use the male pronouns that he prefers, but if somebody else doesn’t, he doesn’t want us to correct them or even acknowledge it. “If people think I’m a lady, just let them,” he says. (By the way, before he turned ten he’d say, “If people think I’m a girl, just let them.” Obviously, in C.J.’s mind, when you enter the double digits you go from girl to lady.) “If strangers think I’m a lady it doesn’t matter because I’m never going to see them again. So who cares what they think,” he explains. We’re cool with that. It’s his choice. And, knowing that his choice can change, we’ve checked in with him often during the last six years. At age four, he didn’t want us to correct people because he liked being mistaken for a girl. That’s when he wanted to be a girl, so when people mistook him for one he would beam proudly knowing that he had convinced someone of something successfully. It’s like the feeling I get when people think I have my shit together and am good at adulting. We all feel proud when people see us the way in which we want to be seen. We didn’t correct people. In first and second grade he wanted us to correct people when they misgendered him. He no longer liked being mistaken for girl. Sure, he sometimes still wanted to be a girl, but more than anything he wanted to be his rainbow self. Why couldn’t people understand that he was a boy who was a girl at heart? It was frustrating for him. We corrected people. Starting last year, he asked us not to correct people when they misgendered him because of the whole “if they are strangers, I’ll never see them again anyway” reasoning and because he felt that correcting people drew more attention to the fact that he’s different. We stopped correcting people. It was a hard habit for Chase to break. He’s a protective older brother and wanted people to know when they had erroneously referred to his brother as his sister. Plus, if his brother wanted male pronouns, he should get them. A server approached our table to take our drink order and referred to C.J. using female pronouns. Chase corrected the server. “Babe, don’t do that, he doesn’t like it,” I said once the server was out of earshot. “Well, I don’t like it when people think he’s a girl when clearly he’s a boy,” Chase argued. (Disclaimer: C.J. does not always “clearly” look like a boy.) “But, it’s my choice and I don’t want you to make a big deal out of it! You’re embarrassing me!” C.J. said folding his arms across his chest. “I’m not embarrassing you! I’m standing up for you!” Chase insisted while pulling his baseball hat down to block us from his view. And, that, my friends, is how something as simple and mundane as asking for a Diet Coke, lemonade and Arnold Palmer at a restaurant can turn into an emotional debacle when a person is misgendered and it isn’t handled the way they want it to be. It’s not about C.J. being misgendered; it’s about how we react to it. We can’t control the first, but we can control the latter – under his ever-changing direction.    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ misgender Orange County parenting pronouns transgender If People Think I’m A Lady, Just Let Them  “Mama, is this football or baseball that I’m playing right now?” C.J. asked as he attempted to field ground balls, looking completely overwhelmed. “You’re playing baseball. Do you like it?” I said. “No,” he said matter-of-factly. I said nothing. I smiled as I looked around. My five year old was the only boy on the team who didn’t know what sport he was playing. He can’t be bothered to keep things like that straight. He can name every Disney princess and her movie of origin, specific shades of pink and purple, and the difference between a braid, a french braid, a ponytail and pigtails. But, baseball and football have no defining characteristics that set each other apart in his brain. C.J. had tried baseball before. It didn’t exactly go well, he didn’t exactly like it, but that was nearly two years ago and we wanted him to give it another go. He shies away from athletics and we don’t want him to. He’s tried baseball, flag football, soccer, gymnastics and swimming. We want him to feel comfortable competing, being part of a team and being athletic. We asked him if he wanted to try baseball again. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. No. Yes. Yes. We signed him up for the local recreation league and C.J. was picked to be on the Seattle Mariners. “What’s a mariner?” he asked his dad. “A seaman,” C.J.’s Dad said. I couldn’t help but giggle. “It’s like a sailor,” C.J.’s Dad said, giving my juvenile humor a dirty look. C.J. loved his shiny teal jersey and hat with an “S” on it. “What team are you on?” Nana Grab Bags asked C.J. “The Sailors,” C.J. said. “Oh, how fun!” Nana Grab Bags said, not knowing her professional baseball teams and fully trusting C.J. “You’re not on the sailors, you’re on the Mariners,” I corrected C.J. “They are the same thing, Daddy told me. And, that’s why there is an ‘S’ on my hat,” C.J. argued. I pick my battles and this wasn’t going to be one of them. C.J. was a sailor. The Seattle Sailors were comprised of four and five year olds, all boys, most of them had little to no baseball experience. They met every Sunday for a 45 minute practice followed by a one inning game. On the way to the first practice/game, C.J. insisted that he didn’t want to play baseball anymore. “Well, you haven’t even started yet, how do you know that you don’t want to play?” I asked. “Cause I know,” he said looking out the window with arms tightly crossed against his chest. His pink and purple fingernails peeking out. “You only have to do it six times, then you don’t have to do it again if you don’t want to,” I reasoned. “Okay.” About half of the kids on the team had a dad by their side throughout the practice and the game. C.J.’s Dad was there every step of the way, coaching C.J. and reminding him that he would get a snow cone from the snack bar after the game if he tried his hardest. The Sailors were up first. The league supplied four batting helmets: two black, one navy blue and one pink. The boys in the dugout avoided the pink helmet like it had the plague, or worse — the cooties. Not C.J. As his turn to bat neared he proudly put on the pink batting helmet. His dad was acting as first base coach and watched the scene unfold from a few feet away. None of the boys said anything to C.J. about his helmet choice. They were probably all glad that they wouldn’t have to wear the pink helmet since it was on his head. C.J. was next up to bat and one of the other fathers walked up to him and started to remove the helmet. “You don’t want to wear a pink helmet buddy,” he said as he pulled it off of C.J.’s head. C.J.’s Dad left his job at first base. “Actually, he wants to wear the pink helmet,” he said to the other father. “Really?” “Yeah.” “Oh, okay.” C.J. skipped to home plate for his ups. He hit the ball and I watched as my boy in the pink helmet ran straight to third base while his dad yelled to him from first base. C.J.’s Brother laughed uncontrollably. After every player on our team had a chance to hit the ball and run the bases, it was time to play the field. C.J. was shortstop with his dad by his side. I could see it; C.J. started to get bored. Halfway through the other teams’ ups, I watched as C.J. dropped his baseball mitt to the ground and took off his hat with the “S” on it and threw it to the ground. He casually walked off of the field. C.J.’s Dad didn’t notice that he’d been ditched until C.J. had reached the dugout, where he promptly began collecting his things. “What are you doing?” I asked C.J. when I got to the dugout. “I’m all done. I only like baseball when I’m hitting the ball,” he said informatively. “That’s how everybody feels, but you gotta go out there and catch the ball and try to get the other team out,” C.J.’s Dad said. “No, thank you,” C.J. said, now sitting on the dugout bench and swinging his feet. The inning was over, marking the end of the game. “Do I get a snow cone?” C.J. asked. “Did you try your hardest?” I asked. “No, I didn’t. No snow cone.” The five following games went much, much better and C.J. was super-excited when he got a participation trophy after the last game. “Can I have a trophy with a girl baseball player on top instead?” he asked pointing to the gold male on the top of the trophy he had been given. “No, baby, you don’t get to pick. If there are more boys than girls on your team, then the whole team gets a boy trophy. If there are more girls than boys on your team, then the whole team gets a girl trophy,” I said, kind of making up my own rules. “I want to play on a girls’ team next time, then,” C.J. said. “Oh, so you want to play baseball again?” I asked. “No, never mind. I don’t want to play baseball ever again, but if I did, I’d want to be on a girls’ team, not the Sailors.”    All Posts Main Site Header Baseball Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Mariners Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Sailors Seattle Seattle Mariners t-ball C.J. Drafted By Seattle Sailors   When most people are born, their sex (male or female based on their genitalia) and their gender (male or female based on their brain) are usually in total alignment.  Mine aren’t.  Get over it.  I was born this way.   If you are confused and can’t quite tell if I’m a boy or a girl, just know that I am a person, please treat me that way.   Sometimes I notice that my gender nonconformity makes you uncomfortable.  I’m not trying to make you uncomfortable; I’m trying to make myself comfortable.   My gender nonconformity is a way of expressing myself.  A way of being true to myself, true to the way my heart beats and my blood flows.  I allow you to express your gender your way without being bothered; I hope that you will allow me to do the same.   It’s silly when you think, say or feel that colors, clothes and/or toys are “only for girls” or “only for boys.” Colors, toys and clothes are for everybody — even though one particular item may be marketed only to one sex or gender.  Antiquated notions like dolls are only for girls have no reason to exist and I see them as pure nonsense.   Just because I’m gender nonconforming doesn’t mean that I’ll grow up to be LGBTQ.  It’s a strong predictor, but I’d rather you see me as a child and not an underage punch line to some homophobic  joke. That makes you gross.   It hurts my feelings when people point and laugh at because of my gender nonconformity.  I’m not weird, I’m just different.  I don’t need people pointing out my differences — especially people who are old enough to know better.   I don’t ask that you teach everyone around me about sex and gender and sexuality, but if you could teach them about empathy I would greatly appreciate it.  Treat others how you want to be treated, it’s that simple.   I don’t fit into a category or a box. I may not be easy to explain or understand, but if you approach me with an open heart and an open mind, I can guarantee that I will change your way of thinking.  It makes me sad when I learn that your mind and heart are closed.   Kids like me are the most likely to suffer from depression, addiction and bullying, practice unsafe sex and commit suicide.  Please refrain from making me hate myself because I am different.  My gender nonconformity should not be a thing of shame.   Bullies aren’t just at school, sometimes they are at home too. Home should be the place where I feel the most safe and the most loved.  If that is not the case.  Something is wrong and I need help.   If you see me doing something that defies “traditional gender norms,” don’t place blame on my parents or family.  Give them praise!  It means that they are awesome enough to understand that I need their love and support more than anything. Them forcing me to express a gender that I don’t exactly associate with or trying to “fix” me would do dangerous things to me. I don’t need them to tell me to “act like a lady” or “man up.”  I need them to tell me that I was perfectly created.  If everybody in the world were the same or “expected” this would be a very boring world.  People like me give the world color.  * * * If you have something to add to the list, feel free to leave a comment below.  🙂    All Posts Main Site Header bully bullying Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow 12 Things Every Gender Nonconforming Child Wants You To Know  C.J.’s graduation from pre-kindergarten was overflowing with all of the pomp and circumstance that you’d expect to accompany the age-old right of passage marking the end of preschool (with its wait lists and tuition higher than a car payment) and the start of elementary school (with its nearly 2,000 students who span the ages of five to 12). My two sons on graduation day. C.J.’s last days of the school year were so themed that Walt Disney might have learned a thing or two.  The culmination was a Hawaiian-themed graduation ceremony featuring   a multi-song performance by the graduates, the crossing of the stage to accept diplomas and a potluck BBQ that offered no less than three different types of salad. When C.J. learned that graduation was a themed event, he immediately threw himself into planning his outfit.  Duh. He went searching through his dress-up bins looking for his grass skirt that I brought back from Hawaii last summer.  He couldn’t find it.  Maybe because it had morphed into a tangled, grassy mess with at least one piece of gum in it and it ended up in the trash.  Maybe. “But I NEED a grass skirt for my Hawaii graduation.  I NEED to look like a hula girl,” C.J. informed me. I, in turn, emailed Ms. Sensible to let her know that my son would be wearing at least some portion of a hula girl  get-up to the graduation ceremony.  We were going out of pre-k with a bang. I let him look for the long-gone grass skirt for two days, because it kept him busy.  And because I would never admit to purging it. Ms. Sensible replied to my hi-my-son-wants-to-wear-a-skirt-to-graduation email.  She let me know that a few of the girls in class planned on wearing grass skirts to graduation and that C.J. should feel free to do the same if he wanted to. We set off to Party City to replace the lost/trashed/missing grass skirt.  As luck would have it, they were just setting up three aisles of luau party supplies that will remain intact until they are converted to the costume aisles for Halloween. C.J. in between his two best girl friends. C.J. had his pick of the litter.  There were grass skirts in a variety of colors: rainbow, pink, orange, green, brown, natural, blue and yellow.  I saw the rainbow colored skirt and knew that that would be the one C.J. would pick.  I’d stand there and let him go through the decision-making process.  He couldn’t decide and he couldn’t decide and he couldn’t decide. “I thought you’d want the rainbow one for sure,” I said. “I think I want the blue one,” he said after some more consideration. I was speechless, C.J. has never, ever, picked a blue anything.  I was afraid he was picking it because, if he was going to wear a skirt for all of his classmates and their families to see he felt like it would be safer to wear a boy-colored one. “Baby, it’s up to you if you want to wear a grass skirt or not.  It’s your choice.  And, you can pick any color you want,” I reminded him. “I want the blue one.  I like the blue one.” “Are you sure?  Once we buy it that’s it, no going back, no changing your mind,” I said. “I’m sure.  I want the blue skirt.” “Alright then, let’s go pay for it.” We got home and he immediately put the skirt on.  He moved throughout the house all evening very carefully, so that he wouldn’t get his grass tangled.  Before he went to bed that night, he laid out his outfit for the next day’s graduation ceremony.  Light blue and cream plaid shirt, khaki shorts, brown sandals, blue and green grass skirt, rainbow lei and a fake corsage for each wrist — one blue and one red.  He put extra leave-in conditioner in his hair because he is convinced that the berry-smelling spray makes his hair grow longer and prettier faster.  He got in bed early and didn’t fall asleep until after 11 p.m.  Tomorrow he would be a graduate. The next day, as we walked to his classroom, C.J. was beaming.  He was the only one wearing a grass skirt; none of the girls in class had — as they said they would — worn a grass skirt.  I was worried that C.J. would want to take his skirt off, that he wouldn’t want to be the only one in a grass skirt.  On the contrary, being the only one in a grass skirt and making his girl friends a little envious made him feel even more fabulous.  As far as he was concerned he was the star of the graduation. “I like your hula-girl skirt, C.J.,” Molly said.  “My mom wouldn’t let me wear mine.  You’re lucky your mom let you wear yours.” “I know,” C.J. said. As I watched C.J. on the stage, I was one proud mama. “Look at the little boy in the skirt!” a woman said behind me and I heard a few laughs. C.J. getting his diploma. Yep, that was my son, up on the stage in a skirt for the world to see singing “I’ll Be Going to Kindergarten Next Year” to the tune of “She’ll Be Coming ‘Round the Mountain.”  People could laugh and point all they wanted.  I didn’t care.  Not today. After the graduation ceremony, I was in line for the potluck lunch when Ms. Sensible approached me. “I just wanted to say that it was a such a pleasure having C.J. in my class this year,” she said. “Oh my gosh, are you kidding me?  I was going to thank you for being so amazing.  I know that we are high maintenance and you’ve never taught a kid like C.J. and you taught him with an open mind and an open heart and that’s all we ask for,” I gushed. “Well, I really enjoyed C.J. He allowed me to learn something new, I love learning new things.  And, I’ve watched him grow so much emotionally, socially and academically.  I’m just really proud of him.  I hope you’ll stop by to visit me next year when he’s in kindergarten,” she said. “For sure.  Of course,” I replied. Kindergarten.  It’s 87 days away and I have no idea what C.J.’s next teacher will be like.  I hope that she’ll be a lot like Ms. Sensible, and Ms. Sunshine who came before her.    All Posts Main Site Header gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Ms. Sensible Ms. Sunshine Orange County Party City Raising My Rainbow My Son’s Graduation Skirt  Give C.J. a theme and he will run with it.  This week had him running for five days straight. It was the last week of school and the Orange County Mommy Mafia was out in full force giving each day a theme and a party and a sense of panic that had me constantly feeling like I was forgetting some important detail.  They scuttled about campus in their Lululemon yoga pants, clutching their stainless steel commuter mugs filled with the organic coffee they picked up at Trader Joe’s over the weekend while they were loading up on supplies for the class ice cream social, board game mixer, pizza party, beach blanket BBQ, popcorn and movie mid-day madness and bubble blowing farewell ceremony.  I watched them all from the comfort of my dirty car, while wearing my work pants that give me a severe muffin top and drinking yesterday’s coffee that I had managed to burn when I reheated it in the microwave. I remember when I was in school and there was only one celebration, it was called the final bell ringing, marking the start of summer.  That was the “Official Party,” the bell, it lasted five seconds.  How times have changed, I didn’t even have time to write a blog post this week because I was busy meeting the demands of The Mafia and trying to keep up with my two sons and the days’ many themes and parties so that I didn’t seem like a clueless, uncaring, uninvolved mom. I have to admit, I burst out in insane laughter when one of the boys’ room mom sent an email reminding us that there was a party the next day and she still needed “multiple parents to supply wet toppings.  Squirtable chocolate?” Excuse me?  I nearly showed my true colors.  Alas, I was able to control myself without replying to the entire class using the hashtags #roommomepicfail and #ivegotyourwettoppingsrighthere. For C.J., Monday was pirate day. “C.J., do you want to dress like a pirate for school today,” I asked. “No, that’s not fun,” he said with a look of disappointment. He wasn’t quite as glum hours later when I picked him up from school and he was wearing the awesome pirate hat that he made in class.  He customized his Jolly Roger, complete with rainbow wig and purple grill. Another day that week was Sports Day. “What do you want to wear for Sports Day?  You can wear your baseball uniform or your soccer uniform or….” “I want to be a cheerleader!” C.J. interrupted.  “I already have my uniform, you know the pink one with glitter?” Oh I knew which one he was talking about.  It was two sizes too small, ripped and stained.  Nana Grab Bags had worked her sewing magic on it a few times, but you can only do so much when working with a $15-dollar, imitation satin number. “Baby, that uniform is too small and too worn out to wear to school,” I said honestly.  It was a tattered mess. “Okaaaaaayyyyyy, I guess I’ll wear my baseball uniform,” he said lacking enthusiasm.  “When’s pajama day?” “Friday.” “That will be MY day.  I’m going to wear my Little Mermaid jammies to school,” he declared. I looked at my husband.  Were we really going to let our son wear girl’s pajamas to school?  Considering he doesn’t own a pair of boy’s pajamas our options were limited or I needed to go shopping.  Not that I ever mind a good excuse to go shopping. “Are you cool with him wearing girl pajamas to school?” I asked C.J.’s Dad later that night, away from the boys. “Yeah, I don’t care.  School’s almost over,” he said. “I agree.” It has been a tough school year dealing with gender issues.  In a way we were waving our rainbow flag to mark the ending of a struggle.  Not defeat, just an end. I emailed C.J.’s teacher Ms. Sensible to warn her that on Friday C.J. would be wearing his three-piece deluxe Little Mermaid pajamas that he had recently purchased on sale at the Disney Store to school.  Pants with fish-scale tail design, white top with Ariel on it and optional layered skirt, which C.J. has never considered optional; to him, it’s mandatory. She replied the next day before noon letting me know that C.J. was welcome to wear anything that he was comfortable in.. I picked C.J. up from school.  He sat in his booster seat wearing his baseball uniform. “Mommy, today Ms. Sensible told me that I could wear my Little Mermaid jammies to school for pajama day.  She said I could wear whatever makes me comfortable and that she’ll tell the kids not to make fun of me.  She said that people will like me no matter what,” he said. “Ms. Sensible is right.  She’s a good teacher.” “So, can I wear my Little Mermaid jammies to school tomorrow?” “No, tomorrow is crazy hair day.” “What!?!?!  I LOVE crazy hair day!!!!” “That’s odd, you’ve never had a crazy hair day before,” I said smiling at C.J. in the rearview mirror as I drove. “I know, but I know I’m just going to love it.” C.J. won the award for craziest hair at crazy hair day.  Or so he told us, only for me to find out later that there was no award given.  My kid has a good imagination, or he’s a liar. Finally it was Friday.  Finally it was pajama day.  C.J. had allowed me to wash his favorite Little Mermaid pajamas.  He put them on and then sprayed some of my Victoria’s Secret Body Mist on himself.  He.  Was.  Ready. Then, we got to school and he didn’t want to get out of the car. “What if somebody sees me?” he asked in worry. “They’ll see your fabulous Little Mermaid pajamas,” I said.  “If you want to change, I have a pair of your brother’s old pajamas that you can wear instead.” “No, I’m good.” He sat quietly looking out of the window for a minute or two.  I could tell he was gathering his courage.  His little chest took a deep breath and he opened the car door.  He had made his own decision and I walked behind him to class.  I had his back every step of the way. We got some looks, I’m not gonna lie.  But, I’m getting pretty oblivious to them. Then his girl friend Isabella walked up to him. “C.J., you look soooooo pretty in your Little Mermaid pajamas,” she said with admiration and a smile. “Thank you,” C.J. said shyly.  It was the highlight of his day. Ms. Sensible took the pajama’d kids into her classroom and sat them down.  She explained that it was pajama day and everybody was wearing what they were comfortable in, that people are comfortable in different kinds of pajamas and that’s okay.  She reminded them that teasing was not okay on pajama day or any other day. As far as C.J. is concerned, pajama day was the best day of the school year and it set the stage for him to wear a hula girl outfit to the Hawaiian-themed pre-k graduation four days later.    All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Little Mermaid Orange County Raising My Rainbow My Son Wears Girl Pajamas  “I know Modern Family is just a t.v. show, but on the show did Lily really come from Mitch and Cam?  I mean, was she born from them?” C.J.’s Brother asked as we drove to school one morning last week. “No. They adopted her. People can have kids lots of different ways. When you make a baby from scratch you need a man and a woman,” I answered. “Oh, cause I was wondering, cause Mitch and Cam don’t look Chinese.” “On the show, Lily’s character isn’t from China, she’s from Vietnam, those are two totally different places,” I said. (Geography teacher + sex-ed teacher = me.) C.J.’s brother has been curious about sex and babies lately. Not only have we been peppered with questions about “the birds and the bees,” but also about “the birds and the birds” and “the bees and the bees.” “Please just tell me how babies get out of your belly,” he said seriously, tired of the game playing. “And, DON’T tell me they get out through the belly button!” “The doctor or nurse or midwife helps the baby out,” I said, as I’ve been saying for a while now. “But, WHERE do they help it come out of?” “The vagina.” “WHAT?!?!?! Gross! I thought it came out of the upper-leg area,” he said making a sour-face and smile at the same time. Ahhhh, to be innocent and think that babies escape the uterus via the thigh. For as long as he can remember C.J.’s Brother has known that families come in all shapes sizes and gender/sex makeups. But, now that he is thinking about logistics, families that he’s known forever are sparking questions. Take our Facebook friends who are two dads with an adopted daughter named after two famous Hepburns, where’d she come from? She was adopted. Okay. Families through birth? Check. Families through adoption? Check. Families through surrogacy and egg/sperm donation? No check. On Sunday night, Oprah’s Next Chapter featured an hour-long interview with Neil Patrick Harris and David Burtka. They were talking about “the new nuclear family.” My hubby and I watched that night and sat down with C.J.’s Brother to watch it the next day to show him a family that is different than our own. “I know them! That’s Neil and David!” he said with a gigantic smile when their images popped onto the scream. C.J.’s Brother attended the world premier of The Muppets movie as the guest of Uncle Uncle who was the guest of Neil and David. It was a defining day in C.J.’s Brother’s life. He went to Hollywood, he had the pleasure of seeing a “hobo” (as he likes to call the housing-challenged), he walked the green carpet, he met THE Muppets, he got to see a movie before any of his friends could have possibly seen it and the day ended with an all-dessert after-party. Oprah showed a clip from Neil’s days on Doogie Howser, M.D. “Look, that’s Neil when he was first on t.v.,” I said. “Wow, that must have been in the sixties….like when they had the first 90210,” he said. “It’s not that old. I watched it when I was in junior high.” “That’s old.” Whatever. Neil and David gave Oprah a tour of their house. C.J.’s Brother asked if we could get a magic room with a secret door like Neil Patrick Harris has. I told him he could get one in his house when he grows up. He was disappointed. I disappoint my children at least once a day. Today it was due to magic room envy. Then Neil and David’s twins, Harper and Gideon, appeared. “Ahhhhh, they’re so cute!” C.J.’s Brother said, quickly getting over our lack of a magic room. “Are they adopted?” “No,” I answered. “One of them was pregnant?!” he said pointing to Neil and David. “No, a lady helped them have their babies,” I explained. “That was really nice of that lady,” C.J.’s Brother said. “It sure was,” I replied honestly. C.J.’s Brother lost interest in the show once the twins were whisked away for lunch and nap-time. I watched a few parts of the sit-down interview again, cause I liked them so much. First, I liked to watch Neil and David give Oprah an “aha” moment. Viewers watched as Oprah realized, thanks to Neil and David’s family, that same-sex couples have to really plan out having children. There are no accidental pregnancies with same-sex couples; their children are totally thought out, yearned for, planned for and accepted so gratefully with endless amounts of love. Same-sex couple pregnancies are never unwanted, no mistakes, no surprises. How many people can say that they have given Oprah Winfrey an aha moment? http://www.oprah.com/common/omplayer_embed.html?article_id=37875 “What is your dream for your family?” Oprah asked them. “I hope that we find ourselves in positions where they have the freedom to embrace whatever it is that they’re drawn to. I want to provide for them the opportunity for them to do whatever it is that they want,” Neil answered. “Be their own person.” David added. “Because a lot of the time, we grow up thinking we should be something else. It’s so important that we tell these kids that they’re their own individual.” The new nuclear family, has the same dream for their family that this mom has for her old traditional family. We didn’t come to be families in the same way, but we want the same things. And, to me, that’s all that matters. Thank you, thank you, thank you to Neil and David for being great people and parents…and, for being brave examples for my sons.    Main Site Header David Burtka Modern Family Neil Patrick Harris New Nuclear Family Next Chapter NPH Oprah Oprah Winfrey The Birds And The Bees and NPH  We all think we’re right.  I was reminded of that fact  yesterday as I watched a video that has gone viral of a toddler in church, wearing his Sunday best, gripping a microphone in his pudgy little hands and singing “Ain’t No Homos Gonna Make It To Heaven.”  Only a few seconds into his performance, the pews of parishioners started to cheer and applaud and I clicked the “X” on my computer screen.  I couldn’t watch a moment more.  That Video Boy’s parents think that they are raising their child right.  I’m sure they were proud of their sweater-vested tike as he sang a church solo up on stage.  My guess is that they were beaming with pride as out of his mouth tumbled words of hate, judgment and homophobia. Whatever happened to “Jesus loves the little children, all the children of the world?” The viral video was off of my screen, but not out of my mind.  I got up from my desk and indulged myself in a simple pleasure of the working mom: a walk to the overpriced, underwhelming deli in the lobby of the next office building to grab a sandwich to eat as I worked through lunch. “I think that Video Boy’s parents are doing a shitty job of parenting,” I thought to myself.  Then, I realized that they’d think the exact same thing of our parenting of both of our sons…especially C.J. To me, they are bad parents.  To them I am we are bad parents.  They are raising an LGBTQ hater and I’m raising an LGBTQ lover.  Tit for tat.  Agree to disagree.  One step forward, one step back.  I wonder…in this great big world…do our families cancel each other out? I thought of something that I posted on my Facebook page recently.  It’s a quote that says “No child is born homophobic.”  True that.  No child is born full of hate.  Video Boy’s parents are making him homophobic.  They are feeding him hate for breakfast, especially on Sundays. The equivalent in our family would be to pump ecclesiaphobia into our children; to instill in them a fear of church, organized religion or holy people.  I refuse to do it.  In our house hate will not breed hate and fear will not breed fear.  Sometimes it’s a daily struggle that goes against every urge in my sassy soul. As I ate my chicken salad sandwich, I thought more about Video Boy and his family.  I read some of the comments about the video that people had left on my Facebook page and other comments found online.  Some people believe that it all docmented a form of child abuse. Do I think it’s abuse?  No.  I do think that kids shouldn’t be forced or persuaded to make big statements about big topics that they can’t possibly understand, let alone develop an opinion on. How much of our agenda can we push on our kids? I’ve been accused of abusing C.J. because I let him slide all over the gender spectrum….and I (gasp) write about it!  But, I have never so much as encouraged either of my sons to take a stand, make a statement or advocate for my position on anything, unless they can understand it and can determine how they (not me) feel about it. I do insist of my childen – as I do of the people who matter in our lives – that they have an open heart and an open mind.  Poor Video Boy is all closed up already.  Locked in his body with fear and hate.  God was not smiling down on Video Boy’s homophobia…his parents, the parishoners and the pastor are fools for thinking differently.    All Posts homophobia homophobic Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Video Boy We All Think We’re Right  “Where are you two troublemakers off to?” C.J.’s Dad asked as C.J. and I strode between him and his beloved flat screen on our way outside to squeeze in some scooter time before sunset. “We’re going to ride our scooters,” C.J. said over his shoulder as he continued out of the house. “Dressed like that?” C.J.’s Dad asked me. C.J. had just been upstairs playing dress up while I was putting laundry away. Earlier in the day he had been wearing his “Someday They’ll Make a Movie About Me” shirt from Old Navy and swim trunks.  Now, he was wearing a pink t-shirt dress with hearts on it and a Monster High barrette in his hair. “Honey Badger don’t care!” I said to C.J.’s Dad.  It’s what we say to each other when we really mean that somebody doesn’t give an eff about something. “People are going to think that he’s in trouble,” C.J.’s Dad said. “Yeah, people are going to see him dressed like a girl and that’s the first thought that will come to mind,” I said in sarcasm and continued outside to mount my scooter.  I secretly love riding a Razor scooter; it makes me feel like such an extreme athlete. We used to prefer that C.J. not go out of the house if he was wearing an article of girls’ clothing. We’d gently steer him towards indoor play or have him put on something more appropriate for “safety reasons.” We did so to save all of us from ridicule and judgment. I’ve also always had this weird belief that if a sexual predator were to be roaming our streets, a little boy dressed as a little girl would tickle his fancy like no other, making our son the prime target for pedophiles.  These are the assumptions that I develop in my head that make perfect sense to me.  I assume that if a pedophile can score a seemingly confused gender nonconforming kid, they have some sort of bragging rights amongst their like-minded friends.  These, of course, are all just assumptions.  I’ve never associated with pedophiles, so I’ve never had anybody to either confirm or deny my allegations. We’ve become more lenient, C.J. doesn’t desire to wear frilly things out of the house as much as he used to and our neighbors are used to seeing a fiery red-headed boy flit about in unusual costumes, nappy wigs and bare feet with pink toenails. C.J.’s had strapped on his red helmet and took off on his purple scooter.  I was looking for the black scooter that I usually ride. “I just remembered something!” C.J.’s Dad exclaimed entering the garage from the house. “What?” I asked, moving bikes, balls and bubbles around in an attempt to locate my scooter. “Whenever C.J. plays outside in girl clothes I’ve always worried that people will think that he is in trouble.  I know now why I feel that way.” “Why?” I asked, stopping my scooter search to listen to my husband. “When I was a little I knew this kid named Ben.  When he got in trouble or did something wrong or did bad at baseball practice, when he got home his dad would make him put on his sister’s clothes and ride her bike up and down the neighborhood.” “Are you effing kidding me?!” I said, making sure that C.J. was out of earshot. “No, one time in high school, Ben did something wrong and to punish him his dad made him put on his mom’s bra and panties and sit in a lawn chair in their front lawn.” “Why have you never told me this before?!” I said in shock. “I don’t know, I never really thought about it, but when I’ve seen C.J. playing out front in girl clothes I’ve always associated it with him being in trouble and being punished.  I assumed everybody was thinking that he did something wrong.” “Oh, they are probably thinking lots of things, but not that!  What did you say to Ben about his father’s method of punishment?” “I told him that it was weird and that my parents didn’t do that,” C.J.’s Dad said. “What is wrong with people? That is so disturbing,” I said locating the scooter, though now I didn’t feel like riding it. What if people thought that C.J.’s Dad and I were punishing C.J. by making him wear girl clothes outside of the house? I watched my son as he hopped off of his scooter, picked several daisies from our neighbor’s yard and held them in his proud grip as he scooted to deliver them to me with a beaming smile on his popsicle-stained face.  He didn’t look like he was being punished. I Googled Ben later that evening to see what became of him.  Ben is a professional athlete.  If Ben messes up at sports now does his dad still make him put on girls clothes and parade around for all to see?  I wonder.    All Posts Main Site Header Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Dresses as a Form of Punishment  I feel like a jaded, cynical old lady who should be chain smoking on a patio somewhere with cats milling about as I shake my head in amusement and disgust while I play solitaire and ignore the results of my years of missed appointments for pedicures and root touchups.  I’m 34 years old.  I’m too young to be this jaded and cynical. Picture me at an uber-fancy baby shower in Orange County. It’s at a country club (because having a baby shower at a home is so pedestrian) and I’m in a corner by myself eating cake pops (because cupcakes are so 2010).  I’m one of the few ladies at the event who eats food, let alone carbs, so I basically can eat pops until I pop. The mommy-to-be hasn’t announced the sex of her baby prior to the baby shower.  We were all lured there, in part, by “the thrill of being the first to know.” “Gather round, girls,” the event’s hostess shouts, using her perfectly ombre-manicured hands to form a peachy-pink megaphone.  “It’s time for the big reveal.  We’re going to announce the baby’s gender now!” A sea of shellacked sorority sisters squeal and shuffle to their seats. “You can’t announce the gender, you don’t know the gender yet, you won’t know that for years and years.  You know the sex of the baby.  You’re announcing that your baby either has a penis or a vagina.  You have no idea what you could be in for as far as gender is concerned,” I think to myself as I stuff another cake pop into my mouth, stabbing the inside of mouth in the process.  Karma. I’m the lone brunette, the lone eater, standing in the corner, growing into a crusty old broad. “IT’S A BOY!!!!!” the mom-to-be and hostess shout simultaneously as they open the lid of an enormous box and helium-filled blue balloons float towards the ceiling signaling the high hopes they have for their boy, who they assume will grow into a man and a lover of women. “IT HAS A PENIS!!!!!!” I think to myself as I picture helium-filled, penis-shaped balloons filling the room and bonking the classy, hopeful women in their heads as they rise erectly to the rafters.  I bet they haven’t even considered that it may be a boy on the outside who feels like a girl on the inside or a boy who is a lover of boys. The blue balloons hang over the room decorated in yellow.  I try not to look up. My life used to be that simple.  I used to think that a person’s sex and gender were one in the same.  I know better now.  Even growing up with a gay brother, a card-carrying member of the LGBTQ community, I didn’t fully comprehend the possible separation of sex and gender until C.J. came along and got all gender nonconforming on us.  I’ve learned that you don’t always get what you expect when you’re expecting. I try to adjust my attitude.  I have to adjust my attitude.  For the majority of my friends, if their baby is boy he will like boy toys, the color blue, sports and the such.  I have to let them revel in their uneducated presumptions and be happy for them.  A baby is something to be happy about.  It’s part of my family’s process to not allow ourselves to get jaded and cynical.  We have to celebrate and support every person’s individual journey.  Sometimes you have to let go of your issues in order rejoice with and for someone else.  Let go of your issues, grab a cake pop and watch out for penis-shaped balloons.     All Posts Main Site Header baby baby shower Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County Raising My Rainbow sex Baby Shower Sex Reveal  Homophobic North Carolina preacher Sean Norris recently gave a sermon in which he advocated physically assaulting gender variant toddlers.  Listen to it here.  This letter is my response to him. Dear Pastor Harris, Hi.  I’m C.J.’s Mom and boy would you hate me!  I have a little boy who likes “feminine” things and I’ve allowed him to do so.  I’ve even shared it with people on the internet.  But, not by taking pictures and posting them on YouTube, as you suggest — mostly because that’s not exactly how YouTube works, I think you have it confused with Facebook, but that’s not really the point I’m trying to get at anyway. My point is my son is gender variant.  He’s a little boy who likes all things girly, like playing with dolls and wearing skirts.  My son started acting a little girlish at age two and a half and I didn’t, as you suggest, “squash that like a cockroach.”  He’s had childhood fantasies and I haven’t squashed them.  Why?  Because here’s the thing: I’m a Christian.  One who believes that God doesn’t make mistakes.  He made my son perfectly, by his own design.  God knew every hair on his precious little head before he was even born.  Before he started “acting like a female.”  I figure that God knew what he was doing when he created C.J. and that I was given C.J. as my child to love him, not change him. My gay brother (yes, I have one of those in addition to my effeminate son!) and I grew up in a home where somewhere along the way religion became more about fear, rules and judgement than love, kindness and peace.  Your words remind me of that home.  When you say things like “Dads, when you see your little son dropping the limp wrist, you walk over there and crack that wrist” it makes my heart feel like a scared child again.  Aren’t fathers supposed to model their behaviors after the ultimate father?  Christ.  Would Christ crack his child’s wrist? I have to believe that Christ wouldn’t tell one of his little boys to “man up” and then “give him a little punch.”  I haven’t read the part of the bible where Christ punched people.  Did I miss that part during my two years of theology courses in college? So anyway, thank you for giving my husband and me permission to crack our son’s wrists, punch him and bully him in his own home.  We have chosen, instead, to love our son just as God created him and to allow him the freedom to flourish and thrive using the gifts God gave to him specifically. Bless you, C.J.’s Mom    All Posts Main Site Header Berean Baptist Church bully bullying effeminate Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homophobic parenting Pastor Harris raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Sean Harris Open Letter to LGBTQ-phobic Pastor Sean Harris  In last week’s post you got to hear from Grandma Colorado as I started to explore the evolution of our family as we raise a gender nonconforming child, this week it’s Grandpa Colorado’s turn to speak/write.  Instead of Q&A style, Grandpa Colorado wanted to write about the things that are on his mind most when he thinks about C.J. and our family.                        In Regards to C.J. One of Grandpa Colorado's favorite fishing spots. There is a truism in the statement “once a parent, always a parent.”  If I am to look at the circumstances leading up to becoming a traditional parent, I find many things come into play.  Find a partner.  Marry her.  When the time comes in which you both agree that you are ready for a child and you say “it’s time,” be ready for life’s little disappointments and surprises. Failure to conceive this month and then the next month.  The false pregnancies, the painful miscarriages are devastating and take you to a corner in your mind with yourself.  But you find there is a plan…two months, then three, now you tell your parents and your friends as you enter four, now five and watch your wife’s body change and you deal as best you can with her incredibility fascinating and weird situation.  But always in the back of your mind as eight and now nine months approach you remember life’s little disappointments and surprises.  What if the baby is not healthy?  What will we do? I have always tried to be a good father.  There wasn’t a manual handed to me when the unbelievable event occurred, so I decided to use my father as a sort of “reverse barometer.” When parenting my sons, there would be no slapping in the face, no hitting on the buttocks or legs with a stick that they had to cut from a tree in the backyard.  No shaking, no screaming, no slugging in the stomach and I would do my best not to have my sons fear me.  These were simple rules and I tried my best to uphold them, like I said, there wasn’t a manual. I watched both my boys grow and experience life.  I was — and am still — proud of their academics, sports participation and social skills.  Their standards in school might have been a little difficult for them at times because their school was where I earned my living.  I taught for 33 years in secondary education and expected their studies and conduct toward teachers and coaches to be more than average at all times; a little pressure, I’m sure, but it was in MY manual. The lake by Grandpa Colorado's house. As my children continued in their formal education they found their soul mates; beautiful young ladies who shared their values, their hopes and their dreams together.  The marriages of my sons held such special anticipation.  Grandchildren…new boys, new girls, more family, we could hardly wait.  My wife and I have been blessed with grandchildren who get older and wiser each year and we are parents of parents.  Life is good. There are times in which I am jealous and it doesn’t speak well of my character, but I strongly feel that if we never feel jealousy we can never experience love.  Nevertheless, I am jealous of the relationship my son and his wife (C.J.’s Mom and Dad) have with their children.  They are better parents than I ever was, way better.  They guide and allow, a concept that I never invoked.  Mine was control and approve.  The love and respect and the fun that their children have for them gives me pause.  Is there some way I can go back? In my experience as a teacher and managing a class I tried to be aware of behaviors and be willing to correct inappropriate actions from some students directed toward others.  I hate bullies.  Long before I became 6’ 4” and 240 pounds I was bullied by individuals in grade school and couldn’t get away from them.  No complaint to a teacher brought me relief, it is still with me today at age 65… this time, I’m glad I can’t go back, I would be afraid of my actions. Grandpa Colorado's new puppy. In my classroom my method was simple.  When “jocks” or the socially “cool” or the wannabe “thugs” started to get the upper hand on some individual that targeted individual was sent to a counselor who, by prearrangement, kept him/her in the office for ten minutes “just checking their schedule” while I talked to my class and reminded them of life’s little disappointments.  Their future child might not look right, maybe not talk or walk right, or just not fit in. “Worse still, your future child could be on the playground or in the classroom with bullies like YOU!  How dare you!” I’d say to my class.  In the past, leaders and followers have come to me and apologized for their behavior and have brought the victim into their circle. Toward the end of my teaching career, I was seeing many examples of this bullying social behavior.  I saw more and more children taunted by their “friends;” bullied by individuals that morphed into groups; excluded from athletic groups, social groups and academic groups just because of that groups’ perception of what was correct, cool and normal. Friedrich Nietzsche the German philosopher once commented that humans are the only animal that commits suicide.  It is chilling, but it is true.  Our young children listen at times to the wrong people with tragic consequences.  Their panic and sense of self worth at times pushes them to a place that is hard to imagine.  It breaks my heart that I find myself at times powerless to undo what some people have done.  I am saddened in my character in that I am now not recognizing the better angels in peoples’ souls but, instead, look for the evil in mankind instead of the good. My panic and fear is that I can’t be that teacher or the parent for my grandchildren, but it is tempered by the love and support that is extended by their true parents.  We as a society have allowed this community of bullies and evil to flourish and we as a society have the power to stop it through education and voice.    All Posts Main Site Header bully bullying Colorado gender nonconforming Grandpa Colorado Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow A Grandfather Worries About Gender Nonconforming Grandson  I’m late posting April’s Month In Review because we were busy celebrating Chase’s 14th birthday. Can you believe he’s already 14?! Any-who, following are the highlights from our month on Instagram. Click here to view more. If you’re on Instagram, follow me. If you already follow me, thank you! I’m beyond honored to again be named one of BlogHer’s Voices of the Year. BlogHer is the largest annual celebration of women online content creators, social media influencers and media makers. I’ve been named a BlogHer 2017 Voice of the Year in the Short Written Work category for the blog post I published the day after the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando. Growing up, I instinctively knew that I had to worry about my brother’s safety because he was slightly effeminate when young, people assumed he was gay as a teen, then he came out shortly after high school. All of those things made him a target for bullying, harassment, victimization and violence. I saw him find his people and it eased my worry. The first time he took me to a gay club, I remember thinking, “He’s found his people. He’s safe here.” When I awoke to news of the shooting in Orlando, I was reminded that my brother is not safe. My son is not safe. Even if they find their people. Because monsters can find them there, too.   About a year ago, I dropped CJ off at a girlfriend’s birthday party. An art teacher helped the girls and CJ through a painting class and, then, they enjoyed cupcakes and gift opening. When I returned to pick up CJ, everyone’s paintings were lined up for viewing and admiration. Everyone had followed the teacher’s step-by-step instructions and pained two pink French poodles on either side of the Eiffel Tower. Everyone except CJ. He painted this. Because he can never be the same as everyone else. This painting has been hanging in his bedroom ever since. #nobodyisperfect   My son or a resident of Grey Gardens?   We took some time off to get away for Spring Break and are just now getting back to our normal routine. Which sucks, but what are you going to do? It can’t be Spring Break forever. CJ used his time on the plane to finish the book Courage to Soar by Simone Biles. He was so inspired that he made me spend the rest of the flight taking pictures of his Barbie doing plane gymnastics. Which means I didn’t get to finish my book. But that’s okay because mothering is all about sacrifices.   When I tell other guys and dads that my son is gender nonconforming and possibly transgender and/or gay, the response I get most often is “Man, how do you deal with that? I couldn’t do it.” What does that mean? You couldn’t parent a kid like mine? You’d be his first bully and “make him a man?” To me, that makes you less of a man. Much of the time when I confront such people they immediately begin to backpedal and try to move on. I’m not afraid of this discussion and many don’t choose to argue with me or defend their position. To me, loving a child who is different, a target and seen as vulnerable is my role as a father and decent human being. He’s just as special to me and loved by me as my oldest son, whose most prized possession is a pocketknife, who plays football, likes fart jokes, and is starting to notice girls. I want to love my son, not change him. I’m a father. I signed on for the job with no strings attached, no caveats, no conditions. – Matt, in a piece he wrote for The Atlantic a while back.       All Posts BlogHer gender creative gender nonconforming Instagram LGBTQ Orange County parenting Our Month In Review: April 2017  I’ve been thinking a lot lately about how our family has evolved since C.J. swished and flourished into our lives.  So, I decided to interview Grandma Colorado via email.  I hope her evolution is apparent to you.  She went from not knowing what a blog was to being one of Raising My Rainbow’s biggest fans.  She knows the blog’s frequent commenters by name.  She tells her friends about it when she is playing mahjong at the community center and while doing pilates at the rec center.   I’m proud of her evolution… C.J.‘s Mom:  When did you first notice that something was different about C.J.? Grandma Colorado:  When he was about three years old. Mom:  What was different about him? Grandma:  He always had a lego person or a stuffed animal and always wanted to have a conversation with you with your toy.  He would always say, “how are you today, what do you want to do today.”  He always wanted to be the girl.  I would say I’m the girl and he would say I could be a girl or a boy but he was definitely the girl in our conversation. Mom:  Did you think it was a phase at first? Grandma:  I thought he was very bright and just showing individuality.  He was always very independent. Mom:  Did him playing with girl toys or dressing up like a girl ever bother you? Grandma:  I thought it was unusual he wanted dolls only and girl toys.  I guess I thought he would outgrow it.  One of our friends had a neighbor boy who only played with the girls and loved the tea parties and such.  He is now married with four children and very happy. One Christmas C.J. only received boy toys and he was devastated.  Our son said it was the worst Christmas ever because C.J. was so angry at Santa and didn’t get anything he wanted.  Our son said that would never happen again.  That really hit home with us.  You don’t want to deprive your children.  The toys don’t bother us.  The dressing up was a little harder to accept.  We worry more about how cruel other children can be.  I’m accepting of whatever my child or any other person wants to be. Mom:  Do you or did you ever think we should make him conform? Grandma:  C.J. will be whatever he will be.  I don’t think he has a choice.  I think you guys have done a wonderful job with C.J. and his brother.  We just want our children to be happy and well adjusted. Mom:  Do you think he was born this way?  Is it his nature or his nurture? Grandma:  I definitely think he was born this way.  I know many gay people who are happy and wonderful with lifetime partners.  I don’t think you would choose this lifestyle.  There are too many ignorant and cruel people out there.  I just worry about his safety and happiness.  Children can be so cruel.  You can see this already in C.J.‘s neighborhood. Mom:  How has having a child like C.J. in the family changed you? Grandma:  It has made be much more understanding and compassionate for children that don’t fit society’s mold.  I feel I have always been very compassionate, but now I am more vocal about it.  I stand up for the underdog.  Like I said before I have a child in my charity organization that is very gender nonconforming.  Now I always point out his pretty headbands and how unique and special he is. Mom:  Do you feel like an unexpected advocate? Grandma:  Most definitely.  I am so proud of you as parents and his big brother.  I feel Uncle Uncle has made a huge impact on my son over the years.  He has helped make him more sensitive and understanding.  My daughter-in-love has made a huge impact on our family and we are very blessed to have her in our family. Mom:  What are your biggest fears for C.J., his brother and our family? Grandma:  C.J. is a tiger, but a totally sensitive child.  I worry for everyone when he goes to school.  I don’t want C.J.’s spirit broken.  I want him to be able to stand up to the bullies.  I fear for his brother because he is so kind, gentle and an absolute sweetheart.  I don’t want him to have to change to protect his brother.  I see this happening though and I see no way to change this.  I see strong parents that are doing an incredible job.  They have a difficult situation, but C.J. couldn’t have better parents picked for this challenge.  Our family is there to back you four up.  We are all lions circling our cubs. Mom:  How were things for LGBTQ kids when you were working at the local high school? Grandma:  The kids pretty well accepted them.  I had an aide named B. who, as a senior, was fine and his family had finally accepted his sexuality.  But, in his sophomore year he attempted suicide.  As he tells it, it was a lame attempt, more of a plea to get his family to accept him as he was.  Apparently it worked because his father was very accepting then and just glad he was alive. At the other school I transferred to,  they had a large gay and lesbian group.  They had meetings on campus and were very open about it.  I think kids have become more accepting of it and not afraid.  At least in the high school level. Mom:  How do you think you would have parented a child like CJ? Grandma:  Certainly not as well as you have.  I think I would have been very confused.  I probably would have blamed it on myself for my child being like this.  I would have wondered what I had done wrong.  It would have taken a while to accept.  But, then you become supportive and just hope your child is not bullied and hurt along the way. Mom:  What do you think C.J. will be when he grows up? Grandma:  An artist, architect or engineer.  He is so exacting and a perfectionist when he colors and draws.  I am expecting great things from him.  He is so dramatic and artistic he could be in theater also. Mom:  What’s your favorite thing to do with C.J.? Grandma:  Run around and chase and scare him, draw with chalk, color, read to him, play dolls and hike (he has great stamina!). Mom:  Anything else you want my blog readers to know? Grandma:  In closing, I feel like my son and daughter-in-law have done a wonderful job with both of their children.  They are lucky to have Uncle Uncle who can share and prepare them for what he has gone through.  They have a supportive family that wants to love, share, help and see their family grow to their highest potential for each individual.  We fear for the ignorant people out there who are terrified of anything different.  We have two beautiful and totally unique grandchildren.  We want their safety, happiness and them to be whatever they want to be. Love & Blessings, Grandma Colorado    All Posts Main Site Header Colorado gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Grandma Grandma Colorado parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Q&A With Grandma Colorado  Setting: Chinese Food Restaurant, Friday Night, Orange County, Calif. “That guy is FAT! And HAPPY! I like his skirt!” C.J. said pointing to the restaurant’s statue of Buddha that was as tall as he is. C.J. put his arm around Buddha like they were best buddies George Clooney and Brad Pitt goofing for photographers on the red carpet. I gave C.J. a look and he backed away from Buddha. A lady in the waiting area giggled.  C.J. shot her a knowing smile as if to say, “yeah lady, you know what’s up.” (Two minutes later) “C.J., sit down and stop touching your Mom’s earrings, please,” C.J.’s Dad said from across the table as he perused the menu. (Two minutes later) “C.J., get out from under the table and sit down. Fine, get Abby Cadabby off of the floor and then sit down,” said C.J’s Dad. (Two minutes later) “C.J. put your lip gloss back in your purse and sit down,” C.J.’s Dad said. (Two minutes later) “C.J., just stay out of your purse, please, and sit down,” C.J.’s Dad said. The server approached our table to take our drink order. “Do you have lemonade?” C.J. asked. “Ohhhhhh, pink lemonade? Dat’s my favorite because pink is my favorite color. I’ll have dat.” “I’ll have a Tsingsao beer, please,” said C.J.’s Dad. “Yes. Tsingsao,” the Chinese server said in his heavily affected broken English. “SING SOW!” C.J. said in his best Chinese, five-year-old affected English. “For God’s sake, get your son under control!” C.J.’s Dad said to me, his Irish eyes smiling and his fair-skinned face turning red. “SING SOW!” C.J. said out loud again, liking the sound of it. “It’s like being with a drunk, 21-year-old girl 24/7,” C.J.’s Dad whispered across the table to me.  I had to agree. Sometimes that’s exactly what it’s like. This is the outfit that C.J. put together for our "Hot Date." C.J. was a little hyper and out of sorts that night, but it was due to excitement, I can promise you that. His brother was at a sleepover, so C.J. had us all to himself. Instead of staying home to eat, we told C.J. that the three of us would go out on a date. “A HOT date?!” he asked as we were at home deciding where to eat. I should have known then the kind of mood he was in and considered staying home. When my hubby and I have a date night he always tells the boys that he is taking mommy out on a “hot date,” so, naturally, C.J. expected that our date night would be nothing short of hot. We let him pick the restaurant. “Chinese!” It’s his favorite. The combination of not having to share our attention with his brother, being out on a “Hot Date” and getting to pick the restaurant, had him intoxicated with joy and power. A lethal combo when it comes to kids. In his mind, the night was young and it could go anywhere, it was full of potential. Perhaps he’d get to eat more than one fortune cookie, maybe we’d stay out late and miss bath time, maybe we’d forget to make him brush his teeth. The night was drunk on Tsingsao beer with possibilities. C.J. slid out of his seat while his father and I were discussing our days. He stood next to our booth in the aisle, put his hands on his hips and proceeded to drop it like it’s hot. The kids at the next booth laughed. My husband’s face flushed and I bit my lips to stop giggles from making a necessary exit. “Seriously woman, get control of your son!” C.J.’s Dad said to me. Guilty as charged. Sometimes I let C.J. hold on a little too tightly to his confidence and bravado because I feel like he needs it or will need it when dealing with haters in life. You need those two things (among other things) when you are growing up gender nonconforming and are among the youngest members of the LGBTQ community. But, I also don’t want my child to be poorly behaved. We are working on finding a balance. “C.J. baby, we don’t drop it like it’s hot in restaurants,” I said with a smile as I pulled him into the booth and gave him a hug. His dad glared at both of us and, then, smiled. Two Easter baskets for two boys. Which one is C.J.'s? Hope you had a nice Easter! We got quiet as we waited for our food to arrive and hoped C.J. would pull it together long enough for us eat, pay and leave (our version of Eat, Pray, Love). “SING SOW!” It came out of nowhere. C.J.’s Dad shot me a look and I stifled a giggle. Now I was feeling drunk and all I was sipping on was my good friend Arnold Palmer. C.J.’s Dad started talking about a case he was dealing with at work and was explaining how he arrested a guy. “Oh no you didn’t girlfriend!” C.J. said loudly with a flick of the wrist and a snap. Our food arrived. C.J. shoved fried rice into his mouth with his spoon and, when that became too laborious, he used his dirty little fingers which were stained from the day’s art projects. We were driving home and relishing in the quiet of the car. “SING SOW!” C.J. shouted from the back seat with such enthusiasm that the contents of his purse dumped onto the floor of the car. “Oh my!” he exclaimed. Twenty-one-year-old drunk girl indeed.    All Posts Main Site Header Abby Cadabby Easter gender creative gender nonconforming Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Tsingsao Sing Sow!  I haven’t done one of these housekeeping-type emails in 2012 and it’s long overdue, so here it goes. 1.) California State University, Fullerton – a university in our home county (shout out to the Titans!) – has just launched an extended education course titled “Understanding and Addressing Bullying.”  The course’s emphasis is on bullying related to gender identity, gender presentation, sexual orientation and perceived sexual orientation. It’s the first professional development curriculum course of its kind for education professionals and CSUF is the only university to offer a course like this for credit (read: taking this course may up a teacher’s salary).  Better yet?  It’s headed up by Karyl Ketchum.  Google her.  Ketchum is an anti-bullying superhero who I’ve seen at work firsthand.  Girlfriend is fierce.  Trust. Know a teacher, school administrator, staff member, district official or school board member in California?  If so, please, please, please have them check out this course that they can easily take over summer vacay and be ready to start implementing by the 2012/2013 school year.  The fate of kids like C.J. may depend on it. http://extension.fullerton.edu/bullying/ 2.) Thanks to Raising My Rainbow super-fan Tina who, after reading last week’s post, sent me a link to the most fabulous free Disney paper dolls.  The doll is Kate Middleton and her options for clothing are all infamous gowns worn by Disney Princesses.  C.J. played with Kate and her Disney dresses long enough for me to make dinner and do the laundry uninterrupted…that’s like two weeks in mom-years. “Kate Middleton’s dress designer is a royally guarded secret, but just imagine if she could walk down the aisle in a dress designed by Disney! Your tea party guests will have a ball fitting Kate into the Disney Princess’ famed frocks, from Cinderella’s wedding gown to Aurora’s twirling pink confection.” http://family.go.com/printables/article-1001999-princess-kate-paper-doll-t/?cmp=SMC-FB_Fcom_%5Bkate_printables%5D_%5Bdisney%5D_%5BFamily.com 3.) People ask me for resources for raising gender creative kids a lot.  I usually have to send a sloppy list of sites and books and articles that have helped me along the way.  Then, this popped into my inbox: http://libguides.bankstreet.edu/transchildren It’s a research guide that has been created at Bank Street College Library titled “Resources for Families of Gender Variant and Transgender Children.”  Little did they know that they just made my life a little easier.  Stop by and check it out.  It’s a work in progress and they are open to suggestions and feedback. 4.)  After my post about those stupid Twitter homophobes, I learned about anotetomykid.com.  A Note to My Kid gives the LGBTQ community, their parents, family and friends the opportunity to share their unconditional love with one another through open letters and it reminds members of the LGBTQ community that there is a lot of love and support out there.  Check it out, I did and got so involved reading that I was nearly late to pick up C.J. from school. 5.)  Some people are still pissed that I don’t show any of our faces on the blog.  Some people are so used to it that they have forgotten that we actually have faces.  At any rate, if you want to follow – through photos — a family raising a gender creative child you should check out www.hesparkles.wordpress.com.  The mom is an amazing photographer.  That’s another reason why I don’t include more/better photos.  I know a good photo when I see it, I just can’t take one.  If I want to produce a reasonably-eye-pleasing-photograph I have to use Hipstamatic on my phone.  I haven’t even ventured into the Instagram world yet, much to Uncle Uncle’s embarrassment.  I digress, cheers to Noah and his mom.  We love boys who sparkle. 6.) What I’m reading this week (or read recently and the weeks are blending together): A Teen’s Brave Response to “I’m Christian, Unless You’re Gay” on Single Dad Laughing A Father’s Reaction to His Very Young Gay Son on Huffington Post 7.) Bravo to you if you just read all of that.  With all of that “business” out of the way, a new post is coming soon.    All Posts A Note To My Kid anotetomykid Bank Street College CSUF Disney Disney Princess gender creative gender nonconforming He Sparkles Huffington Post Karyl Ketchum Kate Middleton Orange County Single Dad Laughing A Few Things….  “Mommy, do you want to know what I wished for the udder day when I threw dat penny in the fountain?” C.J. asked.  He was freshly bathed and laying in my bed, on his back, with his arms up and folded behind his head.  He smelled like his Disney Princess wild strawberry soap.  He was watching his favorite television show, Jessie. “What did you wish for?” I asked as I bustled about cleaning the house for the cleaning lady who would arrive the next morning.  God forbid she see our real mess. “I wished that I could be Princess when I grow up,” he said. “You did, huh?” I said as I hung up four of my hoodies that had formed a heap on my hope chest.  I could never keep my room clean as a child and can’t now as an adult. “Are princesses real?” C.J. asked as his dad entered the bedroom. “No,” C.J’s Dad replied. “Yes,” I replied at the same exact moment. “Which one is right?  Mommy, cause mommy is always right,” C.J. said. “No, princesses are not real,” C.J.’s Dad said looking at me.  “Why are you telling him that princesses are real?” “Because they are real!  Kate Middleton.  Hello?!” I said, unable to comprehend how he could be arguing against fact.  I had to stop cleaning immediately to tend to this dispute. “Yeah, but, she’s not really a princess,” C.J.’s Dad said. “Are you kidding me?!  Tell that to the Queen!” I was in shock. “She’s not a princess like C.J. thinks a princess is,” he said defending our son and feeling like I was leading him astray. “She’s a real princess and the kind of princess that he should aspire to be more so than the Disney princesses,” I argued. I realized that C.J. was now sitting up in bed watching us argue.  We rarely argue in front of him and his brother, but here we were doing it….about the proper representation of a princess as it relates to our five-year-old son’s future aspirations.  Moments like these don’t happen in other houses with only sons, do they? C.J.’s Dad was standing his non-princess ground. “C.J., there are princesses in real life, but they aren’t like the Disney Princesses or Princess Peach or the other princesses that you know,” I explained.  “Here, let’s go look on the computer.” How did parents explain anything to their kids before the Internet? I showed him a picture of Princess/Duchess Kate Middleton from around the time of her engagement. “She’s pretty, but she’s not a princess,” he said wrinkling up his nose.  I got lost in her perfect hair.  How can a person have consistently perfect hair?  I had perfect hair once recently.  While out the other night I ran into Willam Belli.  Yes, THE Willam Belli from RuPaul’s Drag Race.  He told me my blow out was great.  When one of the most famous drag queens in America tells you that you have a “great” blowout, you don’t wash your hair for three days.  This I know. I found a picture of Princess Kate on her wedding day. “There she is dressed fancy, with her prince,” I said. “Dat’s better,” C.J. said, shaking his head in approval. “But we live in the United States and in the United States we don’t have kings and queens and princes and princesses.  We have presidents,” I explained. I pulled up a photo of President Obama and showed it to C.J.  He looked at the photo on the screen and whipped his head back to look at me with a face that said “you’ve got to be kidding me, that’s so boring compared to a monarchy.” “How far away are the real princesses?” “Far.” “Farther than tornadoes?”  (He’s scared to death of tornadoes, but feels better knowing that they occur far away from where we live in California.) “Yes, princesses are much farther away than tornadoes.” “Dat’s far,” he said looking longingly at the photo of Will and Kate on their wedding day. I turned off the computer and put my clean boy to bed in my moderately clean house, which would be much cleaner in 24 hours. I put myself to bed and thought about questions that I’m asked quite often. If I had a little girl, would I allow her to play with princess toys, read princess stories and watch princess movies?  Yes.  Would I want her to aspire to be a princess?  It depends on your definition of a princess.  A princess who is helpless without the aid of a man, who has no ambitions of her own and whose most important journey in life is finding true love?  No.  A princess who is an educated do-gooder who is treated kindly and as an equal by her partner who stands up for the causes dear to her heart and who has a killer blowout?  Sure. Am I treating my fictitious daughter and my gender nonconforming son differently?  If so, is that okay?  Would I treat my child’s fantasies differently based on their gender?  It’s something I pondered as I drifted away to dreamland.    All Posts Main Site Header Disney Princess gender creative gender nonconforming Jessie Kate Middleton Orange County Princess Peach Raising My Rainbow Willam Belli The Kind of Princess My Son Should Aspire to Be  The famous twirling brothers of Orange County. I took the kids to the park to let them burn off some energy.  C.J.’s Brother was practicing some of his Parkour meets Jackie Chan meets eight-year-old white boy from The O.C. moves while C.J. played with a pink and yellow My Little Pony under one of the slides.   Another boy ran up to the playground and called out to C.J.’s Brother, turns out they are in the same class and the boy’s name is Kyle. “You’re brother is playing with a girl toy!,” Kyle said to C.J.’s Brother after a few minutes. “Yeah, I know, he’s gender nonconforming,” C.J.’s Brother said, stating the facts and moving on up the ladder to the tallest slide. “Oh,” Kyle said following C.J.’s Brother up the ladder.  He obviously didn’t understand what the term “gender nonconforming” meant, but it apparently explained why C.J. was playing with a My Little Pony and, so, Kyle moved on.  That was that. Are we all just looking for an explanation? Even if we don’t’ understand it? I realized I had been holding my breath, partially to hear better and partially because I panic a little during situations like that.  They are situations that we find ourselves in regularly and that have the potential of going all sorts of sideways. I resumed my normal breathing pattern and took a moment to relish in the pride I was feeling for having a kid as kick-ass as C.J.’s Brother, who accepts, defends and protects his girly little brother.   I like that lately there is no shame in C.J.’s Brother’s life, no fear, no hesitation.  It wasn’t always that way. For about a year, C.J.’s Brother struggled with C.J.’s gender nonconformity.  He’d say things like “why does C.J. always have to play with girl toys?” and “why can’t C.J. be more like a boy?”  The whole thing troubled him and he was struggling. Then, one day after his eighth birthday, we sat him down and told him that there is a name for kids like C.J.  They are gender nonconforming.  They are boys who like girl stuff and girls who like boy stuff. It seemed to lift a big confusing weight off of C.J.’s Brother’s shoulders.  It freed up some space in his brain and heart.  There was a reason for C.J. being the way he was.  There was a name for it.  It made sense. Pink handbag? Check. Mini Cart? Check. Canned veggies? Yuck! When something has a name it changes things.  Especially when the name is big and long and official sounding, like “gender nonconforming. Not all families are as lucky when it comes to kids dealing with a gender creative sibling.  We lucked out.  C.J. absolutely could not have gotten a better big brother.  We remind them constantly that they are the very best of brothers.  The brightest stars aligned when they were placed together. So, it hit me that day at the park, when something is out in the open, when the mystery is gone, when it is a known fact and has a name, does the power shift back into the hands of the rightful owner? Because, for a moment, Kyle seemingly had the power.  He saw a child doing something “different” and alerted others for the sake of amusement and attention.  He thought, foolishly, that he was the first to ever do so.  Oh, no my friend, we’ve been living this for half of C.J.’s life.  Two and a half years of people – mostly kids — laughing at C.J.’s defiance of traditional gender norms and pointing it out to others with less than positive intentions. But, when C.J.’s Brother didn’t react the way Kyle expected, when he gave C.J.’s behavior a legit name and, then, not a second thought, the power shifted back into our favor.  When we unabashedly own our differences we shed our weakness and cloak ourselves in power.  It feels damn good.  We wear power well, if I do say so myself. I went to my regular PFLAG meeting last night.  How times have changed.  When I first started going to PFLAG a decade ago in support of my brother, I was the youngest by far.  I was in my early to mid twenties (no need to get specific). Now, my PFLAG family includes junior high and high school students who have to fit the meeting in between homework, athletic practice, tutoring, dinner and bedtime.  There are brave kids sitting in our circle who came out to their family at ages 11, 12 and 13, after knowing since early elementary school that they were gay. C.J.'s ballerina, cowboy, pimp hat look. Most of these kids and others who I have met outside of PFLAG decided to be out at school to shift the power back in their favor.  Secrets give power to the person holding the “truth” who could possibly expose it.  The powerless are the people who the secret belongs to, the person who is scared to death (sometimes quite literally) of their secret being exposed. The bullies, predators, haters and gossips in life move in circles, they sniff out the smallest scent of fear and strike.  When there is no fear, no secrets to sniff out and uncover, those people lose their power.  The power goes to the rightful owner.      All Posts Main Site Header bullying gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes My Little Pony Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Owning It  Dear unborn children of the 100 homophobes who tweeted that they would murder you if you are gay,* I’m sorry. I’m sorry that you got shitty parents.  Unfortunately it happens sometimes, though in a perfect world it wouldn’t. I’m worried about you and so are a lot of other people.  While your future parents are thinking about killing you, we’re thinking about loving you.  Please always remember that.  You deserve to be loved, no matter what, no questions asked, unconditionally, whole-heartedly, not dependent on anything else. I’m especially worried about the two to four percent of you who, statistically speaking, are homosexual.  I can’t sugarcoat it, you’re in for one hell of a ride.  Hold on tight and keep yourself safe. Your parents are stupid enough to believe that sexuality is a choice and don’t know the difference between “your” and “you’re.”  Never let them help you with your homework. I’m sorry that your parents, though they have not been blessed with you yet, have already threatened to beat you, kill you, burn you, make you sleep in the oven, hang you from a bridge, step on your throat, drown you, stab you and/or shoot you.  Your parents don’t represent the goodness that can be found in humanity, they represent the worst. It doesn’t mean that you are fated to be like them.  It means that you don’t have to do much to be better than them.  So start there…then soar. You may just have to raise yourself.  Do it right.  Go to school.  It’s important.  Let your mind wander and consider “what ifs.”  Dream.  And know that once you are an adult and on your own you can make your dreams and “what ifs” a reality.  Do what you can to safely exist until then. Be brave.  Be strong.  Believe that there are people in this world who will love you, cherish you and support you as you find your way.  Seek out your people, find your chosen family.  Don’t look back.  Know that you were made perfectly.  It’s going to be hell until you break free from your abusive, murderous parents.  Know that and believe that it can get better.  That you deserve better. Make an awesome life for yourself.  Use their stupidity and a stature in life (or lack thereof) as a motivator to achieve better for yourself.  Realize that your parents’ minds are so closed that they aren’t fit for society.  Open yours and let it breathe. There are families out there who would welcome you in a heartbeat, no matter which way your heart beats.  You’re going to have to believe and trust and search.   Try not to let prejudice breed prejudice, it won’t do you any good. There’s a possibility that one day your parents will see what a fantastic adult you’ve become.  They may realize, with time, that it’s not important who you love, but that you love.  And, there may come a time that they learn that violence is not the answer. When and if this happens, you may want to forgive them.  Then again, you may not. As I tell my sons every day…. I love you no matter what, C.J.’s Mom** *100 Real Tweets from Homophobes Who Would Murder Their Gay Child: On March 12, 2012, the hashtag #ToMyUnbornChild became a trending topic. People used this hashtag to “tweet to” their future child. Here are 100 real tweets from real people — all within 24 hours — saying they would murder their child if he or she was gay. **If there is something you’d like to say to the unborn children of these homophobic tweeters, feel free to comment below.     All Posts Main Site Header 100 Real Tweets Gay Homophobes homosexual raising a gay child Raising gay child Twitter To The Unborn Children of Homophobic Tweeters  “We are SO Brangelina right now,” I announced as I walked into the house carrying four full grocery bags on each arm.  I load them on my arms like heaving bangle bracelets that cut off my circulation because I’m too lazy to make multiple trips to the car to unload.  I bet Angelina doesn’t have to lug groceries. “Why’s that?” my husband said to me, which is what he says when he needs further explanation to determine just how crazy my thought process is.  Notice he didn’t have to ask who Brangelina was.  Yes, I’ve trained him well.  He can proficiently discuss celebrity couples and knows them all by their conjoined monikers. I peeled the bags off of my arms, placed them on the kitchen counter and pulled out the Life & Style magazine that had just hit the newsstands.  The cover headline screamed “Brad’s Fears for Shiloh: As Angelina cuts Shiloh’s hair shorter than ever, Brad breaks down worrying that his little girl will be ridiculed.” Legends of the Fall changed my life.  It was the first movie that C.J.’s Dad and I saw together (which was a milestone worth journaling about back in high school) and it was when I was introduced to the one and only Brad Pitt.  If you are attracted to men, you remember when you first laid eyes on Mr. Pitt.  It’s like how some people remember the day when President Kennedy was assassinated.  Then, there was the first time I saw Angelina Jolie.  The movie was Gia and, from that moment on, I understood fully and completely how a person could, with all of their being, be physically attracted to a person of the same sex/gender. The two of them together really isn’t fair.  How can that much beauty and sex appeal cohabitate?  Then again, how can it not? My relationship with Brangelina was shallow and purely physical for a long time.  Sure, I heard that they did some volunteer work around the world, donated millions of dollars to causes and saved some orphans from icky circumstances and other fancy stuff like that.  But, I didn’t bother myself with those details until Brangelina had a little girl who started presenting herself as a little boy. Shiloh is roughly the same age as C.J.  From what I can tell she is gender creative.  From what I can tell Brangelina are okay with it.  They were the first example of a family like ours that I saw and could relate too.  If you aren’t a family like ours with a child like ours, then you have no idea how good it feels to read about and see a family that you can relate too. Having a gender creative child will never be in fashion.  I don’t think that we are hipsters because we have a gender creative child and I certainly don’t think Brangelina glamorize it, but they do make it seem a little more okay, at least they do for us.  They’ve taught me to be, where C.J.’s gender creativity is concerned, totally unapologetic.  I thank them for that. The article in Life & Style talked about how Shiloh went from liking dolls to dinosaurs when she was two years old.  That’s the age when C.J. went from liking trains to Barbies.  That’s the age when parents stop selecting toys and the children start doing it for themselves.  At age three, Shiloh started wearing some clothes from her brothers’ closet and C.J. started wearing my tank tops as tank dresses.  A year later, when Shiloh begged for a short-cropped hairdo, C.J. wanted to grow his hair out like Rapunzel.  Shiloh is sometimes mistaken for a boy (because apparently some people don’t keep up on the Brangelina brood like I do) and C.J. is sometimes mistaken for a girl.  Our kids are total twin-sies, only different. In the Life & Style article, Jonathan “Manhattan’s most media-friendly psychotherapist” Alpert was quoted as saying, “this is a culture where kids get picked on if they don’t look like other kids.  Shiloh’s already different…and she may already feel ostracized because of that.” People have given me the same advice and I have read it a few times in magazines like the Atlanta Parent.  My argument is that if we were all the same, this world would super boring.  If the goal is to get people like Shiloh and C.J. to be less colorful, the result will be a dull, drab future in a place where their peers have been taught that conformity reigns supreme.  It will be Boresville 90210, population snoozefest. A few days later Grandma and Grandpa Colorado were in town for doctors appointments and, like an AARP-aged Bonnie and Clyde, they stole the waiting room copy of Star magazine to show us an article titled “Doctor’s Tell Brad and Angie: Let Shiloh be a boy!” In the Star article Dr. Jeff “America’s Physiologist” Gardere said that “it’s important for Brad and Angelina to allow Shiloh to develop into any personality that is not harmful or antisocial.  Therefore, if she wants to develop emotionally more like a boy, then she should be allowed to do so.” That’s what is hard for some people to understand about the way that we have come to parent.  There are people who feel like we should be helping C.J. to conform more and follow his instincts less.  I won’t do it.  I’m here to love him, not change him.  He’s free to be who he was created to be – short of breaking the law and harming others.   I’m trying my hardest to be what C.J. needs so that he can grow into the very best version of himself. Though he’d probably rather playdate with Suri Cruise, I’d rather he find a BFF in Shiloh Jolie-Pitt.  Then, I could talk to Brangelina and thank them for being the first parents to show me that letting a gender creative child be creative is okay….while stealing glances on the sly.    All Posts Main Site Header Angelina Jolie Barbie Brad Pitt Brangelina gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes parenting Raising My Rainbow Shiloh Jolie-Pitt Suri Cruise Parenting Lessons from Brangelina     I’m sorry you don’t like my outfit, but if I go upstairs and change we’ll be late for school…like we were yesterday when you didn’t like my red pants.    That’s why I don’t like it when you wear your wig to sleep, it gets all tangled.  Can you please go put your tap shoes in your room where they belong? Do you have my black slip? I need to wear it with this dress. You need to keep your hands off of your wiener during ballet class; we can all see you through the glass. If you aren’t going to wear your necklace, put it in your jewelry box so you don’t lose it.  You have to take care of your jewels, it’s, like, rule number one in life. You’re getting peanut butter in your wig….again. Your purple shirts are dirty; do you want to wear a pink one? Your jean skirt is on backwards. Just another day of beading in his elegant Little Mermaid wrap...  Have you said things to your LGBTQ or gender nonconforming child that you never thought you’d say?  Are you LGBTQ and have your caregivers ever had to say similar unexpected things to you? Let’s hear it! I’m working on a project and could use some contributions.  Comment below or email me at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com.    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming homosexual Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Things I Never Thought I’d Say to My Son: The First of 2012 Edition  C.J.'s Birthday was ah-mazing! Thanks for all of the bday wishes! Molly is a cutie.  She is five and one of C.J.’s BFFs at school, where they have bonded over their love of Rapunzel and the color purple (the hue, not the novel/film/musical).  Molly has thick, brown curly hair and a perma-grin.  Her happy eyes are always alive and looking for fun.  She is sweet, the first to notice if one of her friends is hurt or sad.  She’ll comfort anybody.  She reminds me of one of the Precious Moments figurines that my grandmother collected when I was young. It made me pause when I saw her at C.J.’s birthday party looking troubled.  She sat with worried eyes that I didn’t know she owned.  Chin in hand, bottom lip protruding.  The kids were all sitting at tables waiting for the cupcakes to be served.  C.J. was sitting across from her.  I moved in a little closer to eavesdrop. “I’m so sorry about your present, C.J.,” I heard her say to the birthday boy. “Why?” C.J. asked, only giving her half of his attention. “I’m just so shy about it,” she continued.  By shy, she meant embarrassed.  Girlfriend had really been giving this issue some serious thought. “My Mommy bought your present while I was at school and she doesn’t know that you like girl toys.  I thought she knew,” Molly said shaking her head in disappointment. Huge props go to C.J.'s Dad who handmade 20 Monster High cupcake toppers for the party! “Your Mommy thinks I like boy toys? Oh my gosh!” C.J. said, giving Molly his full attention upon realizing that they were discussing the birthday gifts that he had been waiting 364 days to receive and open. “I told her before about you liking girl stuff but then she bought you a SpongeBob book and a Toy Story puzzle.  I’m so shy (embarrassed),” Molly explained, telling C.J. exactly what she got him for his birthday before gift unwrapping even took place.  A cupcake appeared in front of each child. C.J. got sidetracked with eating his cupcake.  Thank goodness because who knows what he would have said in reply to being informed that he was getting a SpongeBob SquarePants book and Toy Story puzzle.  He isn’t always good at things like manners, considering the feelings of others and being gracious.  He’s five.  We’re working on it.  The chances of him saying, “Oh, that’s okay Molly, it’s the thought that counts” were slim to none.  I know my son.  He can be a bit narcissistic. Nana Grab Bags made this cake for C.J.'s family birthday dinner. Uncle Uncle was jealous. There was a Beyblade in his Christmas stocking.  He saw it and said with annoyance “why would Santa give me a Beyblade?” and promptly hurled it across the room at the Christmas tree.  While Uncle Uncle tried to hide his elfish laughter behind his mug of spiked eggnog, I crossed the room, retrieved the Beyblade, showed it to C.J. and explained to him that it was a pink Beyblade and that maybe Santa gave it to him so that he could Beyblade battle with his brother and the neighbor kids.  Then, and only then, did C.J. consider forgiving Santa. For the past two and a half, gender nonconforming years, we’ve had problems with gifts and C.J. because:  C.J. likes toys specifically marketed to girls and sometimes people don’t know that or aren’t comfortable with giving him “girl toys.”  And, as he gets older, the formerly safe “gender neutral toys” really piss him off. C.J. seems to have an inability to fake happiness and thankfulness when opening a gift that he doesn’t like. He is a spitfire.  If he doesn’t like something, he’s gonna make it known.  Since Christmas, if he opens a “boy toy” we all duck.  Before his party, one mom asked me what she should buy C.J. for his birthday.  I had my response down. “Anything that you would get for a five-year-old girl,” I replied honestly, owning his gender nonconformity much more than I had in the past when asked “what gifts you will love?”  I’ve come a long way in a year.  I don’t care about what other people think.  I care about my son getting gifts that he likes, if he is lucky enough to be getting gifts. “Are you serious?” she asked. “Yes, and if you aren’t comfortable with that, he loves to do crafts or anything artistic.” C.J.'s fav bday gifts included these Monster High bunk beds, a Smurfette doll and Lego Friends sets. Three days later, at his birthday party, her child gave C.J. a genderless craft kit, which was fine, none of us had to duck.  And that book and puzzle that Molly gave him?  The Toy Story puzzle at Jessie and the purple Lotso Bear front and center, so all was right in his world.    All Posts Main Site Header Birthday Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Lego Friends legos Monster High Orange County parenting Smurfette When Gift Giving and Getting Goes Wrong  My in-laws, Grandma and Grandpa Colorado, are a hunting, drinking, fishing, old-fashioned duo who are, thanks to C.J., newly-committed to learning about all of this sexuality and gender stuff.  Their family photo albums are filled with photos of men, all straight-as-an-arrow, doing hyper-masculine things like playing football, using tools and holding big dead fish.  My family photo albums are filled with photos of fabulous boys doing effeminate things like wearing dresses, sewing and baking cakes.  My husband’s family raises straight boys, my family raises LGBTQ boys.  Their grandson has forced them out of their comfort zone a bit and I have to say I’m quite proud of their progress.  During their last visit, Grandpa Colorado was playing with C.J.  When Grandma Colorado entered the room I heard him tell her this about Draculaura from Monster High: “Now that girl in the bustier, I had a hell of a time getting her top on.  She has fishnet sleeves and splayed hands.  That just doesn’t work out so well.  Somebody didn’t think that through.  And, I spent about ten minutes getting her stockings up and C.J. pulled them off in one second.  Apparently she drops trou pretty easily.  I’m not gonna lie, pulling those stocking up over her cheeks had me feeling a little weird.  I’m definitely entering new territory here.”   After they returned home to Colorado, Grandma Colorado got back to her volunteer work.  She left this message on my voicemail: “I just delivered the backpacks for our Feed our Children program and one of my little boys named Ezra had a big Minnie Mouse bow in his hair!  I said ‘Hey Ezra, I like your bow.’  He said ‘Thank you!  Most people don’t like it.’  I said, ‘oh, no, I think it looks good!’  He said that this spring break his family is going to Disneyworld and all he wants to do is give Minnie Mouse a big hug and a kiss.  Ezra made me think of my little C.J., so I just had to call and tell you.  Love you guys.” * * * C.J.’s Brother thinks that LMFAO pretty much has the best jams on the radio these days.  Because of his love for the duo, there are some days when no one in our family can get LMFAO out of our heads.  Here, we catch C.J. singing in the bathtub again, LMFAO’s Party Rock Anthem.  Click on the arrow below to listen.  * * * I recently received an email from James Parris.  He’s working on a short film project that sounds really interesting.  The film will be called “Pink & Blue” and will use whimsy to promote gender equality at playtime and power a simple idea: It’s healthy for girls and boys to share EQUAL access to imagination during their developmental years – and beyond. Learn more here: http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1031476088/pink-and-blue * * * I promised Nick at Camp Aranu’tiq that I would let you all know that registration is now open for this summer.  Camp Aranu’tiq is a weeklong, overnight summer camp for transgender and gender-variant youth ages eight through 15.  It sounds like fun!  They have two locations: one in coastal Connecticut that has been operating for two summers and one in the mountains of Southern California for which 2012 will be its inaugural summer. Learn more here: http://www.camparanutiq.org/    All Posts Camp Aranu'tiq Colorado Draculaura LMFAO Monster High Grandpa Plays with Dolls For First Time, Emerges Slightly Frustrated  Last week, C.J. shared his ideas for the hotel resort he wants to open when he grows up and he asked you to submit name suggestions because he was struggling to find the perfect name. He went through all of your suggestions (more than 100!) repeatedly on Saturday. He made a short list of his four favorite names and carried it in his pocket on Sunday. The final four:  AmazingNest CAYA (Come As You Are) Inn of the Rainbow Pride Palace  Last night he finally decided on a name. Pride Palace! After reading through all of the comments, C.J. would like you to know that his hotel resort will have plenty of vegetarian and vegan meal options, the staff will know sign language and there will be a small library filled with books. There will be cabins and cottages for guests who want less of a hotel resort feel. He is super excited to announce that the hotel resort will also host weddings! He’s giddy that so many people want to stay at his hotel resort and that he already has legal and interior design professionals who have offered to lend an expert helping hand. Thank you all for supporting and encourage my rainbow boy. Xoxo, Lori P.S. Michelle! You won the naming game. Your prize package (a tiny paper airplane, two tiny origami figures, a friendship bracelet and a note) will be headed your way shortly.    All Posts Hotel Pride Palace C.J.’s Hotel Resort Has A Name!  Continued from a previous post….. I hate being the new mom.  I sat down on the benches outside of the dance studio by myself, looking through the one-way mirror at my son transform into a dancer.  A mother and daughter came running up the benches and dropped their bags next me.  They were late.  The mother started to hastily change her daughter out of her light-up sneakers and into her ballet shoes.  As the little girl held onto the bench for balance she caught site of C.J. “Look at the new girl!  Why is her hair so short!?” she asked loudly. The mother looked up. “I don’t know, honey, some girls just like to have their hair really short like a boy,” she replied.  “That’s my son,” I said quietly to the mother.  Her face turned 15 shades of red as she confirmed to her daughter that she had been right; the new girl in dance class was a boy.  The mother hurried her daughter in the studio and did not return to her seat next to me.  It’s okay, we are used to being the elephant in the room. My eyes were glued to C.J.  I had never seen him happier, more focused.  Finally, he was a dancer.  My heart was melting, yet again, for my sweet gender creative boy. After the break, during which the kids metamorphosed from ballet dancers to tap dancers with a simple change of shoes, one of the other mothers had no choice but to sit next to me.  I decided to get friendly. “How old is your daughter?” I asked, startling her. “She’s five.  How old is your…..little….guy,” she asked nervously gripping her Starbucks for safety.  Is a boy in a tutu and ballet shoes in an all-girls dance class still a boy? “He’s going to be five next month,” I said with a smile.  Apparently there was nothing else to talk about.  A mom behind me tapped my shoulder.  “I think it’s so great that your son’s taking dance.  My little girl in there has a twin brother and I never even thought to ask him if he wanted to try it,” she said. “Thanks,” I smiled sincerely. An advanced adult ballet class started in the studio next door.  I was watching the graceful grown ballerinas and thinking about Black Swan and Natalie Portman and her baby and if she would be at the Golden Globes after retreating from Hollywood with her dreamy ballerina man.  A man entered that class late.  He set his bags down and stripped down to skin-tight black leggings and a tight, deep v-neck.  He found a place on the bar.  Oh my.  Okay.  I get it.  Dancers are good looking.  I watched him move, he was better than every woman in the room. Before dismissal, each tiny dancer was given a coloring sheet as a reward for their hard work.  It was a ballerina Hello Kitty.  Miss. Milk-N-Honey asked if that was okay for C.J.  I assured her that it was right up his alley. C.J. and I took a few minutes to watch the adults dance next door.  C.J. was enraptured.  “Do you see the boy dancing?” I asked, leaning down to his level and pointing as he spotted him. “Wwwoooooooowwwwwwwww,” he said slowly.  Oh yeah.  He saw him.  “Mommy, he’s better than the girls.  I want to be like that.”  “You can,” I said. In the car on the way home, I asked C.J. if he liked dance class. “I.  Tote-a-wee.  Wuved it.” The next class couldn’t come soon enough.  C.J.’s raced me to Miss. Milk-N-Honey.  He was a man, in tights, on a mission.  Like a super hero, but different.  “Miss. Milk-N-Honey.  Today I’m gonna wear my skirt again to class.  Can you pwease tell the girls not to make fun of me?” he said in speech so clear and premeditated that I couldn’t believe it came out of his mouth. “Oh, sweetie, sure,” Miss. Milk-N-Honey said, looking loving and concerned. I couldn’t say anything; there was a lump in my throat.  C.J.’s Dad walked up the stairs then. “Ohhhh, I feel like I’m on Dance Moms,” he said as he entered the studio, saw the parents’ seating area, grabbed as seat next to me and put his arm around me.  My macho husband makes me smile regularly. “She’s no Abby Lee Miller,” he said upon glimpsing Miss. Milk-N-Honey. “Alright, settle down,” I said without looking at him, all eyes on C.J. Class started and C.J. was crab walking across the wood floor. “We need to work on getting his butt up during the crab walk,” C.J.’s Dad said softly.  If C.J. were playing t-ball, he’d be taking similar mental notes, thinking of ways to help C.J. improve.  I love this man for being passionate and interested in the things that speak to C.J.’s soul: “gender traditional” or not.  I don’t tell him enough that it takes a big man to lovingly-father a girly boy.  He’s proof that a bully can be reformed. “Are boy ballerinas called ‘ballerinos’,” C.J.’s Dad interrupted my thought. C.J.’s Dad and I took turns watching C.J.’s Brother practice parkour in the main gym downstairs.  We were afraid to leave C.J. upstairs alone by himself and afraid of what the other parents might gossip about when we weren’t around.  We know we shouldn’t care, but we do.  We’re working on it. Class was ending and it was time for coloring sheets.   Miss. Milk-N-Honey brought out two options to choose from: SpongeBob SquarePants and Princess Jasmine.  Options.  Options are good.  C.J. went straight for Princes Jasmine.  Miss. Milk-N-Honey smiled at me and acknowledged that with a boy in the class she felt like she should have a boy coloring sheet to choose and, even better, that she never considered that one of the girls might want a “boy” coloring sheet. Three cheers for Miss. Milk-N-Honey!  She turned and walked away and I read the back of her shirt. “Wherever you go, go with all your heart.” I grabbed C.J.’s little hand and his tutu and his tap shoes and we went, with all our heart.    All Posts Main Site Header ballerina ballet Dance effeminate Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow tap dance My Son, The Dancer – Part II  “Hi, I’d like to see if there is availability in the Saturday morning ballet/tap combo class,” I said to the girl at the front desk of our local South Orange County youth gym.  It’s a converted warehouse where a child can learn to play soccer, swim, cheerlead, take gymnastics, learn aerial arts on silks, practice parkour, attend preschool, have a birthday party and do just about anything else that will keep business booming for the owners and cater to the OC uber-moms who pilot the blacked-out Escalades parked out front.  “How old is your daughter?” the front-desk girl asked while scanning her computer screen.  “I don’t have a daughter,” I said and stared at her.  It took her a while to realize that I had a boy who wanted to dance.   “Oh, I’m so sorry, we don’t have a tap/ballet combo class for boys,” she replied sympathetically, sticking her bottom lip out and tilting her head to the side.  It’s the story of my life. “Okay.  Well.  Is there room in your Saturday class?” I asked.  “Yeah, does he want to be in there with girls?” “He’d love nothing more,” I said.    There was, in fact, room for C.J. in the class.  He was going to die. C.J. has been in gymnastics for about a year and had been wanting to add the ballet/tap class to his schedule for months and months.  But, since swim lessons would save his life, they took priority in the summer.  Soccer season dominated the fall, although C.J. did not dominate soccer.   All the stars aligned when C.J. had a break in his schedule and two special Fairy Gay Fathers (whose initials are, oddly enough, C and J) asked if there was something they could do for C.J. and our family.  Why, yes, there was something they could do; they could pay for a few months of C.J.’s dance class so we could try it out and see if he liked it as much as he thought he would.  We headed to Payless Shoes to buy some tap shoes.  C.J. could not control himself.  When he saw those shiny, patent leather shoes that made loud noise, with huge black bows on top he was nearly embarrassed by his own excitement.  He held them and rubbed them for a long while before he even thought of putting them on his feet. “Those are girls’ tap shoes, the boys tap shoes look like this,” the Payless Shoe salesgirl with crunchy mousse hair said bending over, exposing her crack and showing us what boy tap shoes look like.  The boys’ shoes were not shiny.  They were dull black with boring lace ups, no Mary Jane-like cutouts on top.    “I want the girl ones,” C.J. said to me quickly with a look of concern. “I know you do,” I said ignoring Payless girl’s reaction.  When it comes to shoes we know what we like.  We had this handled, thank you very much.  On Saturday, I awoke to a noise I was not familiar with.  It wasn’t the house alarm.  It wasn’t a video game.  It wasn’t an alarm clock.  Not my phone.  I threw on my robe and stumbled down the stairs, trying to pry my dry eyes open and brushing my bed head out of my face.  The noise got louder.  It wasn’t even 7 a.m. “Mommy!  Good morning!  Guess what today is?!  My dance class starts today!” C.J. said as he danced he tapped his shoes on our kitchen tile, giving Gregory Hines a run for his money.  I made coffee and wondered how I was going to make two hours fly by.  Finally, it was time to get dressed.  I had been dreading this.   “Where’s my dance outfit?” C.J. asked, as if I had been working on a sequined, lycra, organdy number in my free time.  “You can just wear workout shorts and a t-shirt,” I said. “No I can’t!  I need a tutu!”    Of course he did. The final ensemble was: the tights from his Frankie Stein Halloween costume that are green with fake scars and stitches on them, blue Nike athletic shorts, a purple tutu from his dress up drawer, his purple Handsome In Pink t-shirt and black socks with skeletons on them.  He looked in the mirror and thought he looked perfect, like the dancer that lived in his soul.  Walking through the parking lot, through the gym and up to the second-floor dance studio, it was obvious that not everyone thought C.J. looked as perfect as he thought.   We met his teacher.  I introduced her to C.J. and let her know that we needed to borrow ballet shoes.  She showed us to the lost and found. “I get to wear those?!” C.J. said smiling.  “Yup.” “ALL OF THEM?!” he squealed looking at the tub of about 100 pink lost and found ballet shoes.  “No, silly, just two, you only have two feet.” “Ahhhh, maaaaaaaaannnnnnnn.”  If only he were a centipede.  I returned C.J. to Miss. Milk-N-Honey’s class and walked him just inside the door.  A little girl pointed. “A boy in ballet shoes!” she laughed and pointed for the other girls to see.  The little ballerinas giggled.  C.J. self-consciously found a place on the mat and got ready to stretch.  I explained to Miss. Milk-N-Honey that C.J. is gender nonconforming and she smiled like she knew what it meant.  I think the tutu pretty much tipped her off to the fact that C.J. isn’t your average boy. C.J.’s therapist wants us to work on owning his gender nonconformity and to not be hesitant when there is the need to tell someone new.  She doesn’t think we need to go around telling everybody or flaunting it, but when it feels like an appropriate thing to do, we should do it without pause, like we are just stating the facts, there is room for a discussion if the person wants to be educated, but there isn’t room for negative judgment.  I think we are getting good at it.  It is what it is.  I’m not labeling him for life; I’m giving a name to what he is right now.  I walked to the area where the parents sit and watch their tiny dancers.  I looked at the sets of eyes staring at me as I found a seat.  They were watching the new mom who just brought her son to an all-girls dance class, which has never seen a boy before.  And, he was wearing a tutu and pink ballet shoes. To be continued…..    All Posts Main Site Header ballet Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Handsome In Pink Orange County parenting Payless Raising My Rainbow tap My Son, The Dancer  When I started this blog a year ago, I promised myself that I would give it a 12-month commitment and, then, reevaluate.  I’ve done that.  I’ve decided to keep on blogging, I’m just not sure if I’ll stick to my stringent publishing schedule of two posts per week.  If that were the goal, I’ve already failed in 2012!  Whoopsies!  While I get myself refocused and rededicated, here are links to some news stories that have captured my attention recently.  We have some important stuff to cover in the coming weeks, including C.J.’s fifth birthday and his new ballet/tap combo class.  More soon.  Thanks for sticking around! “Open Letter to Parents: Your Kid Might Be Gay”, Huffington Post, 1/5/12 “Dear Customer Who Stuck Up For His Little Brother”, sweetupndown.tumblr.com, 1/3/12 “Riley on Marketing”, YouTube, 5/6/11 “The ‘genderless baby’ who caused a Storm of controversy in 2011”, TheStar.com, 12/26/11 “IT”, darlenetandogenderblog.wordpress.com, 12/20/11 “It’s Okay to be Neither”, RethinkingSchools.org, Fall 2011      All Posts Interesting Reads  Last October my effeminate three-year-old son wanted to be Snow White for Halloween.  I Googled a bunch of random phrase combos, trying to fit a life dilemma into a search bar.  Boys dressing as girls for Halloween.  My son wants to be a princess for Halloween.  Boys as Snow White.  Boys as Disney Princesses.  Should I let my three-year-old be Snow White for Halloween.  Gender-neutral Halloween costumes. Not much turned up with those search terms.  I got search happy.  Boys playing with girls toys.  Boys dressing as girls.  Boys liking girls things.  What are the chances of an effeminate boy growing up to be gay?  Little gay boys. I gave up Google and moved to parenting sites and mom blogs.  There weren’t sections within the parenting sites that I visited or dedicated mom blogs for people like me raising a child like mine.  I desperately wanted to connect and get some answers.  Nerdy Applebottom published her infamous “My Son is Gay” post about her son being Daphne for Halloween.  I got excited.  Then she went back to writing content more typical of a general mom blog.  But, I wanted more about Boo.  I felt like I was so close to finding a mom and child and blog that I could relate to.  Enough waiting and searching, I’d be that blogger I’d been looking for. So, my Christmas gift to myself and 2011 New Year’s Resolution was to journal about the adventures in raising a slightly effeminate, possibly gay, totally fabulous son. As a new year launched, so did RaisingMyRainbow.com. I started RaisingMyRainbow.com for myself.  To record my feelings and experiences, like any blogger, but not to rant or stand on a cyber-soapbox or be sensationalistic.  I started it for any other person in a situation similar to mine, raising a gender nonconforming son.  There had to be more of us out there, right?  Right?!  We need support, to hear other people’s stories and know that we aren’t alone. And, I started it in hopes that I would draw the LBGTQ audience, because they are the ones who have the answers to a lot of my questions about raising a child like mine.  Like: When did you know you were different?  When did you know you were gay?  Did you do this?  Did you do that?  How did your parents treat you?  How do you wish they would have treated you?  How did your peers treat you?  What can I do for my son that you wish someone would have done for you? My audience wasn’t everybody.  I understood that.  I’ve heard from people who aren’t comfortable with my blog.  But for every one email of opposition, I get about a dozen of support.  When I started writing I knew I had an effeminate son.  I didn’t know that I had a gender creative, gender nonconforming, gender variant son.  I wasn’t hip to the lingo.  A few weeks in I learned that. Although I knew the difference between gender and sexuality, I had it reinforced by readers time and time again.  I still do.  I don’t mind.  Have I considered that C.J. is transgender?  Sure, I’ve considered it a lot actually. It’s hard to see a four-year-old boy in a cheerleader skirt waving pom-poms and not consider it. Go ahead, try.  For now, he identifies mostly as a boy. Early on, people started sending me research, links to articles and videos that they thought I’d find interesting and they started sending mail to C.J.  A dialogue started that spans 45 countries.  As it happened, I realized something that I had never thought about before.  All over the world, there are families raising gender nonconforming kids.  The next generation of the LGBTQ community is being raised, right now.  And, you know us parents, the ones raising that next generation of the LGBTQ community?  We have no idea what we’re doing.  As is the case with most parents.  Some have assembled around my blog and some have emailed me.  The joys and struggles that come with raising a possibly LGBTQ child are much the same, whether you live in Untied States, Ireland or Dubai.  I didn’t realize that until I was about six months into blogging.  At about the six month mark, too, the hate mail nearly stopped.   I had prepared myself for it to only increase with time.  But, the opposite happened.   I think that there are three reasons for this.  The first is that I think people got the sense that I wasn’t going away.  They were right.  The second is that I think people saw, in the comments at the end of each post, that I have a huge amount of support.  They were right.  And, lastly, I think that if people read even one blog post they saw that I love my child and I’m just trying to parent in the best, healthiest, most loving way possible.  They were right again.  From time to time people will ask why I don’t approve negative comments to be published on my blog.  I would, if there were any.  Hate speech, profanities, bullying and foul comments wouldn’t see the light of day.  But, constructive criticism, opposing views and uneducated opinions would be there for all to see, if there were any. I’m a little Type A, if you haven’t noticed.  So I wrote a plan for my blog before I started it.  My plan was to publish two blog posts a week.  Monday’s blog post would be the meatier of the two.  Thursday’s post would be brief.  I’ve stuck to my schedule pretty well considering that I have a job, two active kids, a husband, friends, hobbies and a life.  But, at times, it has been tiresome.  This is my 100th post.  Cheers! It has been an amazing year of learning. We’ve learned a lot about ourselves and our sons.  We’ve learned that for the safety of our family, we may have to distance ourselves from certain types of people.  We’ve learned who our real allies are, the people who will, no matter what, support us and join us as we take our journey and raise a gender nonconforming, possibly LGBTQ son.  Most importantly, we’ve learned that we aren’t alone.  We began having play dates with other gender creative families.  I’ve built relationships with moms who traveled this path and are a little further down the road than I am and are now raising amazing young adults.  I’ve reconnected with people from my past who were struggling with their gender identification and sexuality before my very eyes, without me or our peers knowing.  I’ve seen the kind of father my husband is and have been amazed.  Raising a child like C.J. can tear marriages apart, but, I can say that, after this year, I’ve never felt more secure and confidant in my marriage and the man I picked to spend the rest of my life with.  I’ve seen our older son start to “get it,” and start down the path of being a really cool person who has an open heart and open mind.  He’s a person who knows compassion, understanding, tolerance and, most of all, fun.  He gets things that a lot of members of his peer group aren’t even aware of yet.  In some ways he’s years ahead with his innocence still intact.  I can’t wait to see who he becomes. During the last year we’ve entered the warm embrace of the LGBTQ community and the community of families who are or have raised a gender creative child.  That warm embrace feels good, it feels like home. We’ve learned the deadliness of gossip and how it can poison good things.  We’ve learned that prejudice can breed prejudice and work every day to teach our children to be tolerant, even when the favor isn’t returned. One question that I do get a lot, still, is people wondering what I’m going to tell C.J. about the blog when he gets older.  In short: everything.  I’ve written every post with him in mind.  I’m glad that I’ve encouraged myself to record the happenings of his fourth year.  These are stories that entertained you and I hope that he holds them dear to his heart someday.  More than that, I have other cool stuff to show him, like hundreds and hundreds of emails of support and some emails from people whose lives we’ve changed.  Parents who gave up struggling over gender and, instead, choose to simply love their child, no questions asked.  That is one of my proudest achievement of 2011.    All Posts Main Site Header effeminate gender creative gender nonconforming Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Reflections: Raising My Rainbow Turns One  Last Christmas C.J. was beyond ready for Santa.  He had memorized the name of the specific doll that he wanted and was eager to let the big man know just what was expected of him on Christmas morning.  C.J. was nearly four and there was very little stage fright. Look at those lashes and pretty pink lips! This year on a trip to the mall, as we approached Santa in the center court, C.J. started to, simultaneously, pull away from me and hide behind me.  He ran in a circle around me as I ran in a circle around him, each of us trying to grab the other. “I don’t want to see Santa!  I want to see Mrs. Claus and the reindeer,” he pleaded. “Okay, okay, we aren’t going to see Santa today.” “I want to see Mrs. Claus and sit on HER lap and tell HER what I want,” C.J. insisted. Great.  Where was I going to find a place where C.J. could sit on Mrs. Claus’s lap?  “There’s Mrs. Claus,” I said pointing to Santa’s photographer who just might have been too big for the customary elf costume and was, therefore, relegated to the role of Mrs. Claus;  which is the role I would have wanted anyway because, one would assume, that it comes with a little more respect and right to authority.  But, really, what do I know about the inner workings of the Mall Claus-to-elf employment org chart. “She doesn’t look like Mrs. Claus.  She’s not old enough.  Where are the reindeer?,” C.J. asked. “They must be parked out by Nordstrom Rack,” I mumbled, as we cut through J.C. Penny’s to get to our car.  A few days later, our family of four was at Knott’s Berry Farm.  Bless their berry souls for letting police and fire families in free between Thanksgiving and Jan. 31.  My intention was to get the boys’ picture taken with Santa at Knott’s.  When my oldest son was younger — before C.J. made his grand entrance with a flourish into our lives — I considered myself a connoisseur of Santas and, so, I know that Santa at Knott’s is as close to the real deal as you’re going to get.  We walked into his workshop, which was filled with toy souvenirs to buy, and C.J. quickly realized what was going on.  He began to wring his hands, which is what he always does when he is getting nervous and unsure.  But, he also knew that if he was going to tell Mr. Claus what he wanted for Christmas, now was the time.  The countdown to the 25th was in full swing, he knew this because most of the chocolates were gone from his advent calendar.  C.J.'s souvenir from Knott's. He's got a thing for Lucy lately, C.J.’s Brother hopped right into Santa’s sleigh to shoot the shit for a while.  His legs were outstretched and crossed at the ankles; he had one arm up on the side of the sleigh and was chatting up Santa about Bey Blades, video games and Percy Jackson.  C.J. would not enter the sleigh.  So he sat on the steps to the sleigh.  He wouldn’t look at Santa.  Santa leaned across the sleigh, across C.J.’s Brother and tapped C.J.’s shoulder.  “What do you want for Christmas little boy?,” he said jollily. “Mama, what do I want for Christmas?,” C.J. looked at me helplessly.  He froze.  Like I would if I came face to face Tina Fey or a grizzly bear. “How about anything Disney Princess?,” I offered.  Funny, at that point I was more concerned with helping my son capitalize on his big moment than what Santa would think about my boy wanting a girl toy.  Things have really changed in a year. “Yeah, ANYTHING Disney Princess,” C.J. said with a big smile. “Alright!,” Santa said assuredly as he gave C.J. a high five.  The flash snapped and we walked away. C.J. wasn’t specific with Santa, but he sure was with me.  In the form of a list that is two pages long.  Single spaced.  His brother’s list took up a mere half a page.  The Top Seven Things C.J. Wants for Christmas:  Barbie Princess Charm School Princess Doll (her outfit magically transforms into three different fashionable looks!) All the Monster High Dolls Everything and anything Disney Princess Fisher Price Doodle Bear Pink or purple razor scooter (because he’s so rad that now he scoots on two wheels, not three) A jean skirt for his dress up bin Hot Wheel’s wall tracks (which really threw us for a loop)  The Top Seven Things C.J.’s Brother Wants for Christmas:  Xbox Kinect TV Cell phone Bike Backpack with only one cross-body strap (because “the new kid in his class who just moved here from Chicago has one and it looks really cool”) Dictionary Rock tumbler Microscope  My sweet angel... On his last day of school before Winter Break, C.J. took part in his pre-K class’s Holiday Recital.  He was so excited because all of the kids – boy and girls — got to be angels and wear white dresses/gowns that they made themselves from white pillowcases. I talked to Ms. Sensible after the performance and let her know how happy C.J. was because all of the kids dressed the same and got to wear dresses.  “You don’t think that that as a well thought out decision this year?,” she asked with a wink. I hope Santa is good to Ms. Sensible this Christmas.  And, I hope he’s good to all of you, because you’ve been amazing to us this year. I’m planning on taking a blogging-vacay from here until 2012.  I’ll see you when I return, right?   Cheers!    All Posts Main Site Header Christmastime 2011  Every year during the holidays we adopt a needy child through my work and we buy her/him the things s/he wants most.  Of course, this year I selected Jonah, age 5, who wanted Justin Beiber’s holiday album, Under the Mistletoe.  C.J. loves that he shares a love of the Beibs with Jonah.  He wanted to meet him and listen to the c.d. together.  Maybe next year. * * * FYI, C.J. is still working on his Christmas list.  It’s two full pages long.  Single spaced.  His brother’s list is half a page long.  C.J. is holding out hope that he will get everything on his list.  This should be interesting. * * * I have a question for you: What books do you read and enjoy that are about growing up LGBTQ and/or parenting a gay child?  I just might want to expand my library (and learn from other people’s mistakes).  Let me know if you have any suggestions. * * * I caught C.J. singing in the bath.  Without further ado….Here is C.J. covering his favorite holiday song, Wham’s “Last Christmas.” (Click the arrow on the player below.) [gigya src=”http://boos.audioboo.fm/swf/fullsize_player.swf&#8221; flashvars=”mp3=http%3A%2F%2Faudioboo.fm%2Fboos%2F591024-c-j-sings-last-christmas.mp3%3Fsource%3Dwordpress&mp3Author=raisingmyrainbow&mp3LinkURL=http%3A%2F%2Faudioboo.fm%2Fboos%2F591024-c-j-sings-last-christmas&mp3Time=05.02am+16+Dec+2011&mp3Title=C.J.+Sings+Last+Christmas” width=”400″ height=”160″ allowFullScreen=”true” wmode=”transparent”]    All Posts Holiday Tidbits #2  His name was Aaron.  He had stick-straight, baby-fine blonde hair that fell in his eyes.  He had glasses and was tall for his age.  We were in early elementary school and I could always count on my persuasive powers to lure him toward the corner of the classroom where the pretend “house” was.  There was a small kitchen, a bassinet and an olive-green-colored rotary phone with a long spiraling cord.  That’s where it happened.  That’s where I could convince him – when none of the other boys were paying attention — to be the Daddy, the token male who would play house with us.  Finally, we had a traditional, nuclear family.  I was the Mommy and Aaron was the Daddy.  Sometimes we posed like we were getting our family portrait taken in the Sears photo studio.  He sat on a stool, I was behind him with my two hands on one of his shoulders, he held our babies in his arms. I played the part of Sears’s photographer, too.  The picture is still in my mind. One big happy family.  Poor Aaron.  I thought of him one morning last week.  I was tying C.J.’s shoes and noticed that he had been quiet while getting dressed for school.  C.J. is never quiet while getting dressed; after all, he has big opinions about what he should and shouldn’t wear. “Mommy, today when we get to school, can you tell Gigi that I don’t wanna be the Daddy all the time?  Sometimes I want to be the Mommy.” “What?,” I asked, a little confused. “When we play house at free time she always makes me be the Daddy and sometimes I wanna be the Mommy.” I stared at C.J. as numerous thoughts ran through my mind:   The NERVE of some little girl telling my son that he can’t be a Mommy! Well, at this point it really isn’t possible for him to be the Mommy. What does it matter to Gigi if C.J. wants to be the Mommy, she really is a bossy little thing. Maybe C.J. needs to learn that he does have to be the Daddy because he is the boy and boys are Daddies. How would Gigi’s parents feel about me and my son teaching her a thing or two about gender and identity? Maybe C.J. can be the primary caregiver “Daddy” while the “Papa” is working the 9-to-5 at some hip ad agency or modern design firm.  Or, maybe the “Papa” to C.J.’s “Daddy” would be a lawyer or doctor.  C.J. has a group of four or five girls he hangs out with consistently at school.  Occasionally another little red-headed boy will join the mix.  At free time they like to play house and C.J. is always relegated to the role of Daddy.  This, to most, would be the obvious and only choice for him, unless he wanted to be the baby, but he is way too type A for that. We were walking up to his classroom and he started crying, which he has never – in his illustrious, two-year academic career – done.  They were slow, silent tears, but they were there.  “What’s wrong?” I asked as I knelt down to his level. “Will you talk to Gigi?” “I’ll talk to Ms. Sensible and I’ll help you, okay,” I said. His peers filed into the classroom and we hung out on the sidelines.  Ms. Sensible could see that C.J. had been crying. “We’re having a rough morning.  Do you have a minute?” “Sure,” she said I explained the situation to Ms. Sensible. I explained that, sometimes, my son wants to be a Mommy, not a Daddy, and the girls in the class won’t let him.  I explained that I understood both sides. “I don’t know how to handle this.  I’ve never done this before,” I admitted to her. “Me neither,” she said to me and we stood quietly. “I’m going to email his therapist and see what she says,” I said. “Yeah, do that and let me know what she suggests,” Ms. Sensible said.  “For today, I’ll keep an eye on the situation.” “Thank you.” C.J. looked at us with hope in his eyes.  Today, he might get to be a Mommy. I emailed C.J.’s therapist.  She’s amazing.  She’s cute, hip, sweet and spunky.  I think she’s my age.  If she weren’t my son’s therapist and there wasn’t the whole doctor/patient thing going on, I think we could hang out and have fun.  We would get a mani-pedi while reading gossip magazines and, then, sneak off for a Starbucks and some chocolate.  Or, maybe we would meet up for dinner and each say “yeah, I could do a glass of wine” and that glass of wine would turn into two and a half glasses each and we would end up in Nordstrom trying on perfume and giggling uncontrollably at something that amused no one else in the entire store.  Maybe we would go to a farmer’s market. But, alas, in the real world, I only see her once a month when C.J. has an appointment.  She specializes in gender issues, parenting and children.  So, she’s a perfect fit for us and well worth the hour and a half drive each way. Anyway, I emailed C.J.’s therapist and she immediately proved why we adore her.  I don’t know how she got so smart, but I’m glad she did. She said that we should step back and look at the bigger picture.  “C.J.’s friends won’t let him ___________ and it hurts him badly enough that he cries about it.”  She told me to encourage C.J. to use his words to express himself to his friends, tell them that they are hurting his feelings and ask them to stop the action that is hurting his feelings. Simple enough, right? We practiced at home. “I don’t wanna always be the Daddy, I wanna be the Mommy sometimes, too.  It’s not fair that I always have to be the Daddy,” C.J. told me he was going to say to his girl friends. I picked C.J. up from school. “How’d it go?,” I asked him. “Gigi said no.  I can’t be the Mommy.  I always have’ta be the Daddy.” I listened and observed.  He didn’t seem that upset.  The next step is for Ms. Sensible to talk with the girls to discuss the importance of taking everyone’s feelings and opinions into consideration.  It’s more a lesson in empathy than gender.  We can all use a lesson on empathy every now and then.  I thought about looking Aaron up on Facebook to possibly apologize for not asking him if he wanted to be the Mommy, instead of the Daddy.  I don’t remember his last name.  Maybe it’s for the best.  But, Aaron, if you are reading this, I’m sorry.  I never thought to ask if you wanted to be the Mommy.    All Posts Main Site Header Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting playing house raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow My Son Wants to be a Mommy, Not a Daddy  Most mornings I awake to my two sons and some sort of mayhem.  It could include, but is not limited to, someone’s extreme hunger; children eating sugary contraband after sneaking downstairs unattended; a lost doll; a lost password for a computer game that is expressly forbidden until at least 7 a.m.; a lost T.V. remote control; someone’s dire thirst; or death by morning breath as one of my children spit-whispers directly into my face “Mommy? Are you awake?” As part of the morning routine, I make six meals (three breakfasts and three lunches).  I do my makeup in a small decorative mirror that hangs above our wet bar, which also allows me to keep an eye on the kids as they eat their breakfasts and watch cartoons.  I get them dressed.  Three sets of teeth brushed.  I do their hair.  I load their backpacks.  I load my bags.  Then I can get dressed.  Then, sometimes, I have time to do my own hair.  All of this in an hour and a half. On Wednesday I was upstairs.  Hair in hot rollers.  In only my bra and panties.  The boys were ready for school, waiting for me on the couch and watching the rest of the latest episode of Pokemon. “I see ballerinas!,” I heard C.J. say downstairs in the living room. “I SEE BUNS!,” I heard C.J. exclaim.  Then came laughter.  I continued to hunt for something to wear.  Hot rollers burning my ears.  “I SEE BOOBS!”   Uproarious laughter. I ran down the stairs.  C.J. and his brother were pointing and giggling at the T.V.  I rounded the corner to find them watching the Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show, which I had recorded the night before.  “All right, settle down,” I said hunting for the remote control. Throwing decorative pillows to and fro. “I see YOUR boobs and buns, Mommy!,” C.J. declared.  Now both boys were pointing and laughing at me.  “Where’s the remote?,” I asked. C.J.’s Brother handed it to me and informed me that he turned on the fashion show because he and C.J. wanted to watch it.  I started to change the channel and C.J. started to cry.  I started to think that my hot rollers had been in way too long and I would now look like more like Little Orphan Annie and less like Sofia Vergara.  Great. “Mommy, pwease don’t change it.  Pwease, pwease, pwease,” C.J. pleaded.  “I love dare costumes.  I love dos angels.  I love da wings.”  Of course my sweet, creative gender nonconforming son would fall in love with pageantry and exhilaration of a an amazing fashion show. C.J.’s Brother was blushing, shaking his head yes and giving me a glimpse of what a pre-pubescent boy might look like.  I took a good look as Miranda Kerr bounced her perky way down the catwalk.  I lost focus when I saw Orlando Bloom.  He smiled.  I smiled.  “You’re in the way!  Her shoe came off!,” C.J. yelled, waving me to the side. The show cut to interviews and quick snippets of past Victoria’s Secret Fashion Shows.  I looked at the clock.  We were going to be late. “I have to put my clothes on.  You have two minutes until we load the car,” I called over my shoulder as I took the stairs two at a time and started to take the rollers out of my hair.  I threw on some clothes, put my hair in my standard “Bad Hair Day” style and hoped the curls would fall with time.  I raced back down the stairs and herded the kids into the car. “Can we watch the rest when we get home from school,” C.J.’s Brother asked. “Yeah, can we Mommy?  Can I get one of those underwear costumes for Christmas?,” C.J. asked. “We’ll see and they don’t sell them in the store,” I answered both boys.  I had no intention of letting them watch the rest of the show or getting C.J. an “underwear costume,” but didn’t want to argue at that point. “C.J., you might be able to order one of those angel costumes online.  We can check it out when we get home,” C.J.’s Brother offered. “No…please…you guys.” There were no words.  I had no idea what to say.  We arrived at school. “I can’t wait to tell my friends about dos angels.  I love dos wings,” C.J. chattered as he skipped to class, holding my hand.  I said nothing.  That was the day that my little boy, wearing socks made for a little girl, told his four girlfriends in class about the angels in their underwear and the dress up costumes that they might be able to buy online. That night, with the boys tucked in their beds, I sat down with a new bag of Pepperidge Farm’s Nantucket cookies to watch the Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show.  C.J. and his brother really would have liked the Super Angels portion of the show; I was tempted to show it to them.  The cookies started to not taste as good as I watched the models work the walk.  “Yeah, but they are in their twenties and haven’t had kids yet,” I scoffed to myself.  Not true anymore.  I was lying to myself.  They are in thirties, just like me.  They are moms, just like me.  I closed the bag of cookies.  I deleted the show.  I went to bed and counted angels until I fell asleep.  I’m sure my boys did the same.    Main Site Header Angels Christmas gender creative gender nonconforming Orange County parenting Pepperidge Farms Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Victoria's Secret Ballerinas, Buns and Boobs  C.J.’s Brother:            C.J. are you singing “Deck the Halls?” C.J.:                              Yeah. C.J.’s Brother:             Where did you learn that song? C.J.:                              At Forever 21. * * * In school this week, C.J. was instructed to draw a snowman via connecting the dots and, then, color him like a “traditional” snowman.  Here’s C.J.’s idea of a “traditional” snowman.  C.J. has never seen snow firsthand; perhaps he really does believe it is purple.  I love the sassy snowman’s matching pink hat, scarf and gloves.  I wonder if they came as a set or if he had to painstakingly search for the three separately.  I just made a mental note to ask C.J. when he wakes up tomorrow. * * * There is a local radio station that plays only holiday music from Thanksgiving to New Year’s.  C.J. and his brother want to listen to it nonstop (which is okay with me, but it may drive their dad a little crazy, allegedly).  The song that C.J. loves the most?  The only song that consistently gets him moving and grooving?  Wham’s “Last Christmas.”  Cheers to you, George Michael! * * * This has always been one of my favorite Christmas decorations.  I put it out this year and my brother, Uncle Uncle, said in his jolliest voice: “Ho Ho Homo Santa!”  If this is Ho Ho Homo Santa, what would be a reasonable name for his reindeer?  It’s something I’ve been contemplating for days now.    All Posts Christmas Forever 21 gender creative gender nonconforming George Michael Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Holiday Tidbits  “I LOVE ANGELS!” “Okay, C.J., but we have to get all of the Christmas decorations down before we can start opening the boxes,” I repeat over his screams. It’s the Sunday after Black Friday (or Thanksgiving or whichever one you celebrate) and C.J.’s Dad is up in the attic handing down boxes of decorations to me and C.J.’s Brother.  As each box is passed down, C.J. asks what’s in it.  I reply by reading the writing on the box. Two boxes came down that read “Angel” and C.J. nearly pissed his new pajama bottoms that I bought at one in the morning two days earlier.  He was bouncing around yelling “I LOVE ANGELS” while his dad was yelling “IT’S TOO HOT TO BE CHRISTMAS” from the 100 degree attic.  Of course we had a heat wave in Southern California the day that C.J.’s Dad had to climb to the hottest spot of the house and retrieve 10 boxes of heaviness so that we could deck the halls with boughs of holly; it’s not exactly his most favorite chore of the year anyway.  C.J. finally got his wish, to open the two boxes marked “Angel.” He squealed out of habit and then a look of slight disappointment crossed his face.  I don’t blame him.  The angels aren’t my favorite either, but once upon a time when I loved Shabby Chic and thought Rachel Ashwell was a design super-star, I loved them.  “When do we paint them?” he asked. “We don’t paint them,” I said. “But, they are just white,” he stated not being able to comprehend why a blank canvas would be left blank. “Yes, angels are just white.” “Dat’s boring.” C.J.’s Dad swooped in to put the angels in the spot they have occupied every Christmas for the past eight years.  He obviously wanted to get the decorating job done and to watch the football game that was on T.V. and it wasn’t helping that Uncle Uncle sat on the couch watching “Pop Up Video.” “NO!,” C.J. yelled. “The angels don’t both go there.  One goes there and one goes here.” He was pointing dramatically and moving things around and standing back to give his merchandising a better look.  He was like a mini Tim Gunn in the workroom. “The angels have both always gone here,” C.J.’s Dad pointed. “Boys, let’s not fight,” I instructed, as I do a few times each day. The angles in their place (one where they have always gone and one where C.J. wanted them to go), we opened another box.  “A STAR!,” C.J. yelled as he picked up the gold star that perches on top of our Christmas tree.  He held it high above his head with his right arm and marched through the living room, kitchen, dining room and family room.  “I’m da Statue of Liberty!,” he announced. “C.J., please get back here and give me the star.  I don’t want you to break it,” I said.  Maybe I should have decorated when the kids were at school.  C.J. proceeded to run around the house with the star, being Lady Liberty as I chased him. He handed over the star and, when I wasn’t looking, took two of our beaded and embroidered Christmas stockings and put them on his feet, they went up to his crotch.  “I’m an ice skater girl!,” he said.  Sure enough, the glass beads on the stockings allowed him to glide on the tiled kitchen floor.  A regular old Johnny Weir. Uncle Uncle was still on the couch, now getting the 4-1-1 on Christina Aguilera’s “Ain’t No Other Man” video.  The person best suited for decorating my house wasn’t helping.  Between him and C.J., I should have been able to host my own version of Design Star and have a seriously festive interior.  Instead, Uncle Uncle got the boys hopped up on Rice Krispie treats that they made the night before when he was the babysitter on duty. Which was when C.J.’s Dad and I went on a date and saw J. Edgar, who I had no idea was gay (I’m not exactly “up” on history) and while everybody in the theater was hating on Mr. Hoover, I was pulling for him because he liked to dress in his mommy’s dresses and because he cried after she told him that she’d “rather have a dead son than a daffodil (gay) son.” Yes, the frenzy of the holiday season is upon us: boring angels, liberty stars, ice skaters, J. Edgar Hoover and all.    All Posts Main Site Header Christmas gender creative gender nonconforming J. Edgar J. Edgar Hoover Johnny Weir Orange County parenting Raising My Rainbow Tim Gunn Uncle Uncle Christmas Decorating Gone Wild  For spring break my family went on vacation with our friends. We stayed at the Montage Palmetto Bluff. It was beyond spectacular! We were allowed to ride bikes on paths all over the resort. I rode my bike so much. I saw my first alligator that wasn’t in a zoo. I went to the pool and played with my friends for a long time. I took tennis lessons and now I love tennis. On the last night, we had a nice dinner and I wore a dress. Then, I had a sleepover with my girl friends! I decided that when I grow up I’m going to make my own hotel resort. It will be mostly for drag queens, gender nonconforming people and transgender people. A lot of transgender and gender nonconforming people like me don’t feel comfortable going everywhere. At my hotel resort everybody will always feel comfortable and welcome no matter what. Straight people can go to my hotel resort if they are nice and don’t worry or even think twice about gender nonconforming and transgender people. If straight people think transgender and gender nonconforming people are just normal people they are welcome at my hotel resort. The straight people can dress however they want, too. The straight men can wear dresses if they want and the ladies can wear tuxedos. (Just nothing inappropriate.) Drag queens can wear lots of makeup and anything they want. Gender nonconforming and transgender people can go out in any gender identity they want and nobody will judge them. I promise. The number one rule at my hotel resort is “you can never judge anyone for the color of their skin or the gender they are or the people they love.” I will have activities for everyone to do. There will be tennis, bocce ball, zip lining, crafts and a big pool in the shape of a heart and it will be nice and warm. There will be two hot tubs. There will also be a playground with gymnastics equipment. People will ride bikes everywhere. They will also be able to ride in golf cart taxis. The golf cart driver will pull up to people and say “Hey, gurl, hey! Do you need a ride?! Hop in!” I want to have a tree house at my hotel resort, but that might cost too much money for our financial plan. The main hotel building will be a creamy white and the steps leading up to it will say “You Are Amazing.” That will be the first thing people see when they arrive. And they will believe it! There will be fancy people wearing rainbow colors for gay pride who open the front doors for guests. Each night you can make s’mores by a big fire pit and talk to people and make new friends. There will be shops all around my hotel resort. A wig shop, a dress shop, a shoe shop, a makeup shop and a craft store. There will be a gift shop that sells marbles with glitter in them. There will be a theatre where drag queens put on shows every night. A different drag queen will perform every night so the drag queens don’t get too tired. There will also be a kids fashion show every day. The kids can put on a show for their parents and guardians, if they want. But they don’t have to; it’s their choice. There will be plenty of restaurants to choose from. A place for hamburgers. A fancy restaurant that serves oysters. And an Italian place that serves pink sauce noodles, red sauce noodles and butter noodles. There will also be a place for steak and chicken. Dessert is macaroons stacked into a pyramid shape in a rainbow of colors. There will be ink on each macaroon that tells the eater a message like: “You are amazing!,” “Don’t judge a book by its cover!” and “You can do anything!” The hotel rooms will all have coffee makers in them with sugar cubes — because sugar cubes are extra fancy. Everybody will get a pair of white slippers. The towels will be folded into animals, like elephants, and room service will leave a chocolate mint on your pillow every night before bed. There will be a big bathtub in every room with bath salts that smell like vanilla and bath bombs that smell like lemon. When a kid arrives, they will get to choose a free gay pride rainbow flag, a small tiny plush star pillow or a pink heart pillow. That will be their free gift. They can only pick one. Everyone will always get along. I want everybody to feel luxurious while they are at my hotel resort. I want them to feel like a prince, princess, king or queen. Whichever one they want to feel like, it’s their choice. The people who work at my hotel resort will know everybody’s name and pronouns and talk to each guest like they know who they are. When people leave my hotel they will feel so welcome in the world and they will get all of their confidence. They will believe that they can do anything. When they go back to the real world and someone is being mean to them, they will not care because they will just be remembering how they felt at my hotel resort. The only thing I don’t know about my hotel resort is the name. I can’t think of the perfect one. I need your help! Leave your idea for my hotel’s name in the comments below. I will pick a winner on Saturday. The winner will win a tiny paper airplane, two tiny origami figures, a friendship bracelet and a note from me. Thanks for your ideas! Love, C.J.        All Posts Gay Gay pride Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Hotel LGBTQ Montage Palmetto Bluff parenting South Carolina transgender Straight People Can Come To My Hotel If….  Yesterday was Thanksgiving, a day for celebrating the blessings of the past year and the things we are thankful for.  Among many other things, I’m thankful for this blog and my supportive readers.   I asked C.J. what he was thankful for and here are his top five answers:  I’m thankful for my family. I’m thankful for clothes.  I like clothes. I’m thankful for toilets so I don’t have to poop on the floor. I’m thankful for stop signs so our cars don’t crash. I’m thankful for American fags.  (Come to find out, he meant American flags.)  * * * Quick request, if you read Raising My Rainbow and are part of a gender studies program, can you please email me at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com or leave a comment below letting me know where you study or which school you are affiliated with.  It’s just for my knowledge.  I’m just interested.  Promise.  Thanks so much!    All Posts C.J. is Thankful For…..  “Do you ever feel like you’re raising a special needs child?,” a friend asked me recently. “Yes, but I feel bad saying it,” I admitted. “You shouldn’t,” she assured me.  “My husband and I say all that the time that we don’t know how you do it, we don’t know what we would do if we had a son like C.J.” The view from my run. C.J. in a dress, sweats and his brother's old shoes. Holding on to Frankie Stein and listening to Britney Spears. And, yes, he's too big for the jogging stroller. My son is gender nonconforming and I consider him to be a specials needs child.  He is a child and he has special needs.  Very special.  Like other special needs children, he needs an advocate, a protector, someone who will take a little extra time to explain things to him and someone to educate others on his behalf.  That person is me.  And, often times it’s exhausting. Some days I’m tired of living and breathing gender issues and it feels like there is no escape. I travel before him, where and when I can, to alert people to his arrival and his uniqueness. I clear the way, often wondering if that’s what’s best.  Am I encouraging people to have preconceived notions about him before they meet him?  Am I doing him an injustice and disservice by not letting people get to know him and love him as him, gender nonconformity aside.  Can his gender nonconformity ever be an aside? Special needs kids are often defined by what they cannot do.  My son cannot blend in.  He cannot wear boring socks.  He cannot resist having his nails painted.  He cannot stop dancing when music comes on.  He cannot resist the urge to strike a pose for the camera.  He cannot play pedestrian games like cops and robbers or cowboys and Indians.  He cannot shun a good skirt with lots of “twirl” to it.  He cannot choose to play with a group of boys over a group of girls.  He cannot keep his hands off of beautiful hair.  He cannot say no to a great craft.  He cannot turn the other cheek to things that sparkle, glow, shine or have a good use of color.  He cannot conform to traditional gender roles.  No way, no how. I love him for all of his “cannots.”  But not everybody thinks that they are as special as I do.  C.J. has a butterfly fetish lately. He got this one at the local farmer's market. I was in the grocery store the other day and C.J. was wearing Tinkerbell boots, pink sunglasses and beaded accessories of his design.  He had a pink plastic microphone and was singing Aqua’s “I’m a Barbie Girl” like he wrote it, sang it and copyrighted it.  The produce section truly is his stage.  Not everybody wants to be his audience.  I get comments.  I get looks.  I give comments.  I give looks.  People insinuate and sometimes say flat-out that my son is gender nonconforming because I’ve made him that way.  Damn me for encouraging him; him being a special needs child is my fault. If my son had Down Syndrome or Autism or a peanut allergy, they wouldn’t blame me for his special needs.  They wouldn’t find fault in me and say that I caused it.  I’m thankful that my child is healthy and happy. When your child has special needs all sorts of fears and worries seep in, grab hold and tease your reason.  When your child has special needs, so do you.    All Posts Main Site Header effeminate Frankie Stein Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow Special Needs Are Gender Nonconforming Kids Special Needs Kids?    I’m telling you, Lady Gaga is NOT Selena Gomez’s mommy.  Come here, honey.  With your wig tied back like that you look like Paul Revere.  Let’s braid it. That’s why we don’t wear wigs at the dinner table; it’s getting in your food. Please be careful not to get holes in your tights. Hold still please, I need brush your hair a certain way before I put your wig on. Are you going to do the black lipstick?  No?   Good choice. I don’t know who Mr. Goodbar is.  Yes, he does make a good bar.  Last week I welcomed questions from you.  A few were posted in the comments section of that post and I’ll work on answering one or two every Thursday.  Don’t be shy, ask me anything.  If you want a little more privacy, you can email questions to raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com (a few people did that this week). Q.  “If science allowed, would a parent chose for their child to be heterosexual if they already knew for a fact that they would be homosexual?” – Jazmine A. No, I would not, if possible, use science to change my homosexual child into a heterosexual.  The thought that some people would consider doing so scares me, mostly for their child’s sake should s/he be a part of the LGBTQ community.  Pack the kid’s bags and send them to my house.  Q.  What about CJ’s creativity – does he often make up stories and the like? I imagine if he did they would be patently hilarious. – Evan A. C.J. is a creative soul.  You’re question really made me thing.   He is just starting to create stories, but will then pass them off as “dreams.”  His passion is for art.  He will draw detailed pictures with crayons, markers, paints or pencils and explain them to me at length, demanding my full attention.  He will also modify pictures in coloring books if the character’s outfit isn’t right or hair isn’t to his liking.  He can stay in the lines better than most kids his age, but isn’t afraid to go out of the lines if he feels it will improve the final result.     All Posts Things I Never Thought I’d Say to My Son: Post-Halloween Edition  I’ve had several requests for C.J.’s Brother’s signature dish: Garden Island Soup, which he will one day serve at his restaurant, The Greasy Dream.  We’ve fine-tuned the recipe over the months, as you can see from the original recipe he wrote.  This soup is great, which means my kids will eat it…which I can’t say about a lot of the food I cook. Here are the ingredients, the measurements vary to taste:  Cooked orzo pasta (The kids love that it’s rice-shaped but really pasta. Blows their minds every time. Knorr Homestyle Chicken Stock (with the necessary amount of water to make a broth Fresh rosemary from our garden (and by “garden” I mean “planter”).  Chop it super-fine. Garlic salt  Chicken sometimes, if we have some leftover from another meal   Bring to a boil, simmer awhile.  Enjoy. * * * Ask me anything.  I know some of you have questions for me and, from time to time, I need a writing prompt.  Leave your questions for me as a comment at the end of this post and I promise to get to some of them in the near future.  I wanna see just what you’re wondering.    All Posts Garden Island Soup Recipe  My BFF came charging out of the bathroom at the internet café on the island of Mykonos where we were chatting up the kiddos via FaceTime. As the oldest child, C.J.’s Brother dutifully held the iPad back in Cali. When he wasn’t looking for boogers up his nose via the small screen in the upper right-hand corner he had the camera pointing towards the ceiling. So, we could see daily that our ceiling was in a state of good repair and our son was picking his nose with the utmost attention to detail. “You HAVE GOT to go to the bathroom!” she said to me with a giddy urgency. Naturally I hopped right up and headed to the tinkle-torium, not knowing what I was going to see. Blood, guts, gore, pubic hair, diamonds, Ryan Gosling? My bestie, she always keeps me guessing that way. I go through the door to the unisex shared sink area, which is the usual in Greece (and other parts of Europe, I suppose). I never got used to sharing a portion of the powder room. I constantly felt like I had entered the men’s room on accident and, at the same time, it reminded me of that one night at M.J.’s in Silverlake, sharing a bathroom with the mixed masses. I get to the side-by-side toilet doors (one for women and one for men) and this is what I see. A pair of Sylvester little boys underwear indicate the “Men’s Room” and Sleeping Beauty little girls underwear indicate the “Ladies’ Room.” C.J. would insist, of course, on making a number one and two with Aurora. I whipped out my iPhone to snap a pic for all of you and the man washing his hands at the sink stared at me and escaped the confined space quickly. I walked out smiling; thanking the Grecian stars that no establishment in Orange County would do such a thing. Little things like that give me pause when C.J. is with me, but make me smile at our quirky adventures when he isn’t around. People now associate me with children’s underwear (read this post to learn why). Is it weird to admit that I’m kind of flattered, because if it is I won’t admit it. * * * In the news this week: A little boy wants to join the Girl Scouts. My initial thought: Holy crap, I haven’t even considered that the scouting age is around the corner and C.J., most likely, will prefer the Girl Scout Friendship Circle to the Boy Scout Wolf Den. Great. My initial thought on the coverage: Good for the Girl Scouts for having a decent, coherent statement. I don’t, however, like that they use the term “transgender” when they should be saying “gender variant” or “gender nonconforming. Overall: The story may be a step forward for gender creative families. Jenna Lyons, the exec from J. Crew who caused “Toemaggeden,” has left her husband of nine years for, allegedly, a woman.    All Posts Panties Above the Door  I used to like going to church. My entire youth and early 20s were spent at church. I was there once, often twice a week, learning how to be a good Christian, playing broom hockey, taking gently worn shoes to kids in Mexico, singing “My God is an Awesome God” by the campfire and turning bible verses into SNL-worthy skits. For a solid year in middle school, I went solely to catch a glimpse of the pastor’s son, who was my age and hot in a way that only an eighth grader can be. Peach fuzz, the onset of acne, braces, you know the look. My dad is an ordained pastor, I went to a Lutheran college, I live in the shadow of a mega-church and I have a gay brother and a gender variant child. Needless to say, I’m conflicted. I’m not the first mother to feel this way; I know that. I was discussing religion the other day with my mom. She told me that when she revealed in conversation to a few members of her bible study that her son/my brother is gay they shook their heads and said “Oh, I’m so sorry.” She says that that is, more often than not, the response that she gets from her church-going friends. She will never get used to it. When it’s time to share prayer requests and praises, she feels like she can’t share anything good about her son/my brother because her feeling is that the others in the prayer circle will be thinking “yeah, but he’s gay.” She encourages me to not give up on God. I really do believe in God and Jesus and occasionally like going to church. It all holds some sort of nostalgic power over me. It reminds me of my childhood and I remember it fondly; the days of good, clean fun. But, then there’s that not-so-little matter of my religion not accepting members from the LGBT community. It’s a community that I live with and may be raising. The other night, as I lay in bed thinking about religion, God and C.J, it came to me. If C.J. is going to hell, then I am too. I told my husband that he has to go to heaven with C.J.’s Brother. It’s like splitting up when one kid has a gymnastics lesson at the same time that the other one has soccer practice. That night I was also thinking about Leviticus, where a list of rules is written out. It’s portion of the bible that my church (which I’ve been attending for more than 20 years) refers to often when the topic of homosexuality is broached. Then, the other Sunday, C.J.’s Dad and I were sitting in our church’s worship center watching a video encouraging people to get baptized. There were pictures of recent baptisms and Christian-pop-rock music blaring. Onto the screen popped a picture of a cross intricately tattooed on a church member’s forearm. People clapped. Now hold up just a moment. In Leviticus, not too far from the whole a-man-should-not-lay-with-another-man verse is a verse about not tattooing your body. I guess that tattooing verse wasn’t for real, but the same sex verse is super for real. I’m not saying I’m anti-tattoos. I have one and a half myself. Yes, I have a half of a tattoo. It’s a long story that involves me not sticking to my tattoo removal schedule. Anyway, if there is leniency on some of God’s laws, but not all, I’d just like a breakdown of what we are taking seriously and what we aren’t. Is it right to pick and choose which part of religion I agree with? Is that what most adults do? I often think to myself, “God doesn’t make mistakes.” My gay brother is not a mistake. My gender creative son is not a mistake. A friend sent me a verse from Psalms that says that “God knitted us in our mother’s womb.” I like that. God knitted C.J. (with rainbow, glitter yarn) in my womb. My son is a miracle, knitted by God. If Jesus died on the cross for people’s sins, he died for C.J.’s sins too. I’m demanding it. The other day, while we were driving, C.J. asked me, “Mommy can God hear me?” “Yes.” “Even when I whisper?” “Even when you are thinking something but don’t say it.” “Mommy?” “Yes?” “I just told God a joke.” I wonder how God and his followers could hate the person my sweet, red-headed jokester may grow up to be.    All Posts Main Site Header Bible Christian Gay gender creative gender nonconforming God homosexual Leviticus Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow If My Son Is Going To Hell, So Am I  Hey Everybody!  Some of you have noticed that I went M.I.A. last week.  I was actually in Greece on “holiday” as super-fancy people here in the states call it; the rest of us call it vacation.  Either way, C.J.’s Dad and I were away for nearly two weeks.  The first week I managed to the blog.  The second week I managed to drink Devil’s Tongues on Paradise Beach in Mykonos; haggle for some “genuine replica” purses and watches at The Grand Bazaar in Turkey; and otherwise have the trip of a lifetime with our BFF’s Auntie KK and Timmy S. I would have told you about the trip earlier, but my hubby, being the lawman that he is, didn’t want me to alert anyone to our house being vacant.  Which point I argued because our house wasn’t vacant, his parents were here watching C.J. and his brother.  Oftentimes I lose my arguments before they have begun.  Anyway, I’m back. Thank you to those of you who emailed to check on me.  I am alive and well and jet lagged. Daddy and C.J. carved a pumpkin. C.J. took his time drawing the hair one strand at a time. More of you emailed to see if C.J. has selected a Halloween costume.  Yes, he has.  After much consideration – with particular attention given to your suggestions found here  at the end of my post – he has decided to go as Frankie Stein from Monster High.  She’s the 15-year-old daughter of Frankenstein.  Stay tuned for more to follow on our Halloween festivities and/or calamities. News flash!  The BBC has published an article about Raising My Rainbow…in Portuguese.  Hope it says nice things.  Thanks for caring, seriously! C.J.’s Mom    All Posts BBC Frankie Stein Greece Monster High Here I Am!  “Ohhhh, Mama, I look like a soccer player!” C.J. is standing in front of my mirrored closet twisting back and forth at the waist, watching his shimmery black athletic shorts — which are two sizes too big — sway below the knees as he moves. “That’s because you are a soccer player,” I say with excitement. “I am?!” “Yep!” “Why is my costume green? I don’t like green. I like pink. And, purple,” C.J. asks, not taking his eyes off of his reflection. “Because you are on the Green Dragons!” I’m trying to exude total excitement and none of the apprehension that I really feel. Two days later we arrive at the first game, with is also the first practice when you’re on an “Under 5 (years old)” AYSO team. C.J. meets his five teammates and his coach. They are all bouncing around like they are hopped up on Red Bull and fruit snacks. A little boy named Nolan approaches C.J., who is standing timidly by his brother. “Give me five!” Nolan shouts. C.J. smiles and gives him five. It’s the passive version of a high five where you lay your palm out open and let the other person do the actual “fiving.” “Give me five!” Nolan shouts again. His energy is appreciated, but I’m glad that my kids take a while to warm up. Again, C.J. smiles and presents his palm. “Now, I’m going to give you a hard five!” Nolan shouts. “No!” C.J. says and whisks his palm up to his heart. “C.J. doesn’t do ‘hard fives’,” C.J.’s Brother says in warning to Nolan, who immediately turns and runs in search of someone who does do “hard fives.” The 30 minute practice was over before C.J. knew it and we headed to the game field. As we were walking he spied it. I saw it. I saw him see it and I knew what was coming. He pointed to the little girl in the pink AYSO uniform and said very loudly, “Why does SHE get to wear pink and I don’t?” “Because you got picked for the green team. They don’t have a pink team for boys. And, this is one of those times when you get what you get and you don’t throw a fit.” C.J. was pissed, confused and all-around disgruntled about the color of his uniform, but he kept walking to his field. If you’ve seen kids this age play soccer, you know what it looks like. A cluster of kids, with the ball in the middle moving up and down the field, and sometimes off of the field, in a swarm of chaos and kicking that accomplishes next to nothing. They kick the ball in the direction of whatever goal is closest, with little regard to if it is their goal or not. C.J. followed the swarm of players and stayed on the outskirts, prancing and acting like he really wanted to kick the ball, but I could almost hear his thoughts whispering to the ball, “please don’t come to me, please don’t come to me.” At halftime, which was a grueling 15 minutes in to the game, the kids were a sticky, sweaty mess with a coating of wet morning grass. C.J. joined his fans for a drink of water and some oranges. His shirt had come un-tucked in the frenzy of soccer action and he was twisting it around in his fist. Just so you know, K. Stew is largely believed to have the best t-shirt knot in hollywood. “Mama, can you tie my shirt in a knot right here. I dink it will be better dat way.” He indicates that he wants his shirt in a knot on his right hipbone. C.J.’s Dad gives me a questioning look. “Did you teach him that?” “No, I didn’t teach him to knot his shirts. Have you ever seen me knot my shirt? I haven’t since the late 1980’s, early 1990’s when I wore a banana clip in my hair,” I said in my own defense. “Then where did he learn it?” “I don’t know!” I turned to C.J. “No, baby, we aren’t going to tie your jersey in a knot in the front,” I said. “Can we knot it in da back?,” C.J. asked, demonstrating how it would be done. C.J’s Dad looked at me and rolled his eyes. “No, baby, let’s just tuck it in again.” Halftime was over, so there was no debating which would look better, a re-tuck vs. a knot in the front or back. C.J. continued to follow the swarm of players, keeping to the perimeter, with his arms straight down and wrists at 90 degree angles. At one point the ball was kicked by another player and it bounced off of C.J.’s shin. He looked at us and smiled. Dimples deep and pride high. “Good kick C.J.!” we all cheered from the sidelines. On the way home C.J. regaled how that bounce off of his shins was a kick that almost scored a goal. I regaled internally how his sporty jersey was almost turned into a one-of-a-kind knotted creation sure to go against AYSO boys’ league standards.    All Posts Main Site Header AYSO gender creative gender nonconforming Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow Soccer C.J. Starts Soccer  • You can’t wear that pink headband to the rodeo, I don’t think the cowboys will appreciate it. • You can wear your new tap shoes to bed tonight, but we can’t make this a habit. • Little boys who are crying don’t get to wear mommy’s nightgown to bed. • It’s time to take your dress off and get dressed for school. • No, you can’t put earrings on your weiner. • You can’t wear your necklace and bracelet when you play soccer, AYSO rules, not mine. • If you’re going to do cartwheels in a skirt you have to put underwear on. Have one of your own to add to my list? Leave a comment! Click here to read Part 1 and Part 2.    All Posts Things I Never Thought I’d Say to My Son, Part 3  “I WANT THAT CAR! I WANT THAT CAR!” C.J. scared the crap out of me. We were out running errands and he let go of my hand in a parking lot and made a mad dash for the car of his dreams.  Why, yes, that is the official car of Lipstick Bail Bonds and he was standing next to it jumping up and down.  “Can we get it? Can we get it? Please! It’s pink and has kisses on it. I want it! Take my picture by it!” People were looking and C.J. was posing like he was on American’s Next Top Model. I took his picture with it like he was meeting Tyra Banks. “Hi,” a man said awkwardly from behind me. Of course the driver of the car would come out and catch us touching and photographing his vehicle. “Oh, um, hi,” I said with my sweetest smile. “I’m sorry, but my son loves your car.” “No problem. Do you all want some t-shirts?,” he asked. “YES!,” screamed C.J. The nice man from Lipstick Bail Bonds gave us stickers, air freshners and tank tops. Who knew that bail bondsmen carried so many chotchkies with them. Here is C.J. wearing the tank top that he selected. He’s layered it over a hospital gown and paired it with his rain boots. Naturally. Twelve years from now, he fully expects to see that car in our driveway on his birthday.     All Posts America's Next Top Model effeminate gender creative gender nonconforming Lipstick Bail Bonds Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow Tyra Banks If Only He Could Drive…  This post was written by C.J. (age 10). If you aren’t caught up on Drag Race, it contains spoilers. All photo creds go to LogoTV.com.  This season’s first episode wasn’t as good as the first episode from other seasons. It took me a little while to get super in to this season. But, now I am. Bam. Jaymes Mansfield On the first episode I liked Jaymes Mansfield and Nina Bo’Nina Brown the best. Jaymes Mansfield because she came out with a puppet and Nina Bo’Nina Brown because her look was inspired by Mickey Mouse. But my favorite queen from the first episode was Lady Gaga. She wasn’t really a competitor, but she was still my favorite. I liked it when Lady Gaga said that drag offers an escape. I think drag is a great escape. Sometimes I use drag to escape boring real life. In this episode Valentina and Sasha Velour were my mom’s favorites. Sometimes we don’t have the same favorites and that’s okay. RuPaul said no one was going home during the episode and I was like “No one is going home? Then what’s the point of it?!” The best quote of the episode was when someone said “the entire point of drag is to give the middle finger to rules of gender.” I said that the next day to my mom before school. She laughed and said it was true but I shouldn’t talk about giving the middle finger. Especially at school. Nina Bo’Nina Brown I’m glad Nina Bo’Nina won the first episode. I think Mama Ru made the right choice. Then, at the end of the first episode they said some queen was coming back and showed the back of the queen’s head and I yelled “OMG! It’s Coco Montrese with her Dorito face!” Every episode I look for a wedding ring on RuPaul’s finger because my mom told me he got married! But I haven’t seen a wedding ring yet. Where is Ru’s husband?! RuPaul’s probably not wearing a ring for the show but he is probably definitely wearing it when he’s not on the show. I was not happy that Cynthia Lee Fontaine came back to the show on the second episode. I thought it wasn’t fair that she was back at first, but now I’m glad she’s back because she had to leave the first time because she had cancer and she deserves a second chance. Everybody deserves a second chance, especially if you had cancer. There is a wax statue of RuPaul in the workroom and I want it more than anything. I would put it in my room. I also want a wall of fabric in my room, like they have in the workroom. But, my mom says we just redid my room recently and we aren’t going to do it again anytime soon, but I feel like that was such a long time ago. Kimora Blac In the second episode I realized how whiny Kimora Blac is. I thought Peppermint was the best on the runway and she became one of my new overall favorites for a minute. Jaymes Mansfield had to sashay away and that was the right decision even though at the very first she was my favorite. Her personality wasn’t ready for Drag Race. She maybe should have waited a season or two. By the third episode (which is the most recent one you should watch), Valentina is my new official favorite. She is soooooooo good at eye makeup. In the episode Kimora said she didn’t know what an adjective is. By Kimora’s age you should know what an adjective is. By that age I’m going to know them in my sleep. Sasha Velour said “we need to be proudly visible queer.” I told my mom I liked the sound of that quote and she asked me why but I couldn’t explain it. I can’t always explain how quotes make me feel. On the runway Cynthia Lee Fontaine’s outfit looked a little like a kindergarten craft, no offense. I liked Farrah Moan’s seashell bra and lots of the queens had really great hair. Kimora was a no in my opinion. Nina Bo’Nina always does great at gluing a mask to her face. But I have to admit her look scared me a little. I’m just a kid! Valentina Valentina’s look was my favorite. She reminded me of a grown up drag Shirley Temple. Her eye makeup is always so good. So good. RuPaul made another good choice sending Kimora Blac home. When she gets home she should learn how to sew and not pay people to do it. And learn what adjectives are. I can’t wait to watch the rest of the season and see who wins. Right now I want Valentina or Nino Bo’Nina to win. Who do you want to win?        All Posts Cynthia Lee Fontaine Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Jaymes Mansfield Kimora Blac Lady Gaga LGBTQ Logo Logo TV Nina Bo'Nina Brown parenting Peppermint RuPaul RuPaul's Drag Race Sasha Velour Valentina My Son Recaps the Start of RuPaul’s Drag Race Season 9  C.J.’s first day of pre-k at his new school (the school his older brother attends) started last Monday. The Thursday before school started, I popped into his classroom to see if, by chance, his teacher was there preparing for her students. I opened the classroom door and there she was. I wasn’t really expecting her to be there. I panicked. I had the door open. She was looking at me. “Hi, are you Ms. Sensible?,” I asked. Suddenly I was short of breath and sweating. “Yes,” she said looking at me and wondering who I was and what I wanted. I entered the classroom of miniature tables and chairs. “Hi. I’m C.J.’s Mom and C.J. will be in your class this year and I just wanted to let you know that he is gender nonconforming.” I’m an idiot. I’m a complete, fumbling moron and now Ms. Sensible knows it. C.J.'s puzzle person named Joey....dressed as a princess. She was still staring at me with questioning eyes. She was probably thinking that I have Tourettes or some form of awkward social anxiety. Between me and my gender nonconforming son, she, most likely, was instantly formulating a strategy to transfer us out of her class. I had planned to sound much more pulled together, maybe even intelligent and, at the very least, coherent. For weeks, I had rehearsed the moment a thousand times in my head as I waited for sleep to find me at night (nights when I worried that Ms. Sensible would be super conservative, overly religious and/or totally homophobic). But, in the moment, revealing a huge family secret to a stranger, my brain and mouth failed me. I felt like there could be no small talk because I was bothering her during her private time. “Okay,” she said. “So, I just wanted to let you know that we are aware of it and we are okay with it and we are doing our best.” Now I was just trying to fill the silence and wasn’t following my list of key message points at all. And, I had sweat through the armpits of my shirt. A wacky mom with pit stains. “What exactly does ‘gender nonconforming’ mean?” I explained; that, I could do. Thankfully, she was keeping this premeditated conversation on track. C.J.'s puzzle person Elise....dressed as a superhero.“What do you want from me? How can I help,” she asked with a sympathetic look and a tilt of her head. I was fighting back tears and hugs, like I do whenever someone offers to be on our team and help us with C.J. “Just help him to learn, get him ready for kindergarten, protect him from bullies and have an open heart and open mind.” There, finally something came out as I had practiced. “I can do that,” she said. “In my 12 years of teaching, I can’t say that I’ve ever had a ‘gender nonconforming’ student. So, there is some research for me to do. And, I may have some questions,” she said thoughtfully. “I welcome questions. Please don’t hesitate to ask, I really do enjoy answering them,” I said honestly. “And, of course, we really hope that you’ll protect the privacy of our family to the extent that you are able.” We talked a while longer. We discussed how he might learn differently and doesn’t do well when groups are divided by gender. I think she stopped thinking I was a lunatic and started realizing that I have a unique and, at times, tough parenting situation. As we wrapped up our conversation, she thanked me for telling her about C.J. I walked out smiling, discretely holding my arms out at the sides, trying to get my pit stains to dry. Three days later it was time for Ms. Sensible to meet C.J. He insisted on picking out his outfit: a polo shirt with large pink stripes; purple and pink girl socks from the dollar spot at Target; and purple sneakers. Ms. Sensible gave C.J.’s Dad and me a knowing nod, bent down and introduced herself to C.J. He was wringing his fingers in nervousness. He waved goodbye to us and walked into the classroom. C.J. insisted that his Lalaloopsy doll wanted to go in the "hot tub." And by "hot tub" he meant his lunch. The first few days of school C.J. came home and was happy, but not completely thrilled with his academic experience. He said he played with the boys and it was just “okay.” He said that when he tried to play with the girls they ran away and yelled “ewwww, a boy!” Finally a little girl named Daisy came around and decided not to run from C.J., but play with him instead. And, that’s when the girls realized what a fabulous friend C.J. is. C.J. has settled into a routine at school and found his homegirls to hang with during free time. The crafts are fun, snack time is rockin’, life is good in Ms. Sensible’s pre-k class.    All Posts Main Site Header effeminate Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Ms. Sensible Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow Starting School With Ms. Sensible  Nana Grab Bags bought C.J. a new lip gloss on a necklace; which is his fav-o-rite accessory this season. Here it is with the lip gloss closed.  And, here it is with the café mocha-flavored lip gloss exposed.  I pointed out to Nana Grab Bags that the lip gloss girl looks like she is taking a crap and my son rubs said crap on his face. This is what C.J. looks like with the lip gloss on.  C.J.’s Dad came home from work and saw C.J. and followed me out of earshot into the kitchen.  “Has C.J. been eating shit sandwiches?” “No, it’s his new lip gloss. It’s café mocha flavored. My mom bought it for him,” I explained. He walked out of the room shaking his head and passed C.J. who flashed him his best brown smile. * * *  Have 13 minutes and 14 seconds to spare this weekend? Watch this video. The lives of little boys like C.J. depend on it.     All Posts Lip Gloss Nana Grab Bags Maybe Brown Lip Gloss Just Isn’t the Right Color for Our Son  Dear Stacy Trasancos (author of the gross blog post titled “Can’t Even Go To The Park”), Like you, I am a mom.  Like you, I believe in God.  And, like you, sometimes I am afraid to leave the house because I fear who I might run into.  In particular, I’m afraid of running into people like you.   I’m afraid of the damage people like you could do to my sweet child, who has pink socks peaking out the top of his bedazzled sneakers and is, most often, carrying a Disney Princess in one hand and a purple handbag full of sass in the other.  And — get ready for this — sometimes we have Uncle Uncle and his boyfriend in tow.  Oh, girl, you better run home! We’re your worst nightmare; a brigade of gays and an effeminate boy who doesn’t fall neatly and “traditionally” on the gender spectrum.  Run, girl, run!  Back to your house!  Shut your door!  Pray! People like you cast looks of judgment that are fierce (and not in a good way).  You break people’s spirits in the name of the Lord, when really that is not at all what God was/is about.  God was/is about love and kindness, not fear and hatred.  Maybe he’s using this as a lesson for you, a way to soften your heart to your fellow human.  A way of telling you that real judgment is his, not yours, to own.  Maybe he’s telling you to move (but, not to Orange County, thanks). You becoming agoraphobic isn’t doing anything positive for your kids.  It’s making the world small and scary to them.  You may not be ready to have a talk with your kids about gender and sexuality, but it would be age-appropriate to show them, with words and actions, what it means to love others as you love yourself.   Words like yours aren’t helping the way society views your religion.  Spewing hatred, and using your religion to justify it, does not make you a good catholic or a good person. Honey, you aren’t holier than any of us.  You’re a sinner just like us; we’re all the same that way.  If one of your seven children ever comes out, send him/her to my house for a love you can’t give them.  They’ll have so much fun! We’ll even leave the house! Bless You, C.J.’s Mom * * * I’m super proud to be named one of Ignite Social Media’s “100 Women Bloggers You Should Be Reading.”  I can’t wait to check out all of the other bloggers on the list. (I know Stacy Trasancos didn’t make the list.)    All Posts Catholocism Disney Princess effeminate Gay Gender Stereotypes homosexual Ignite Social Media Orange County parenting Religion Stacy Trasancos Agoraphobic Homophobic Catholic Mom  It’s still summer break here and I signed C.J. up for a special morning camp at the gym where he takes gymnastics.  By the way, he has officially been promoted from a Tumblebee to a Kinderroo, so you might want to get your tickets now for the 2024 Summer Olympics.  Consider yourself warned. We arrived bright and early: C.J., C.J.’s Brother, Uncle Uncle’s boyfriend and me.  We signed in and I asked the sweet little innocent camp counselor what was on the agenda for the day. “Okay.  Well.  We have free play from 9 to 9:15 a.m., stretching from 9:15 to 9:30 a.m., then we put the kids in groups based on their age and gender,” she seemed so happy to be able to answer my questions so thoroughly. Uncle Uncle’s boyfriend looked at me and I was glad that he got the chance to see what I to deal with on a constant basis.  “What do the different gender groups do?” I asked. “Well, the girls do gymnastics, cheerleading and dance and the boys do soccer, rock climbing and go on the big trampolines,” again she was so proud to be capable at her job.  “My son might want to go with the girls,” I said. She hadn’t been instructed what to do in this situation.  Deer in headlights.  I scooped up C.J. “C.J., do you want to do gymnastics, cheerleading and dance or soccer, rock climbing and trampolines?,” I asked. “Trampolines!,” C.J. replied excitedly, already bouncing. “It looks like he’ll go with that group, then,” I told the camp counselor, refusing to call it the boy group. “Alrighty,” she said looking relieved.  You and me both, sister. My son wanted to go in the boy group.  (Actually he really just wanted to bounce on the trampolines, but I’ll take it.)  I walked out of the gym feeling a little different.  My son chose to go with the boys and do “boy” things.  I’d have to get used to the idea.  “Why do they have to break them up by gender?  I bet there are five girls in there who want to climb that rock wall.  Hell, I wanted to climb the rock wall,” Uncle Uncle’s boyfriend said as we walked to the car.  “As a child, I would have much rather climbed the rock wall and bounced on the trampoline than do a cheer and dance routine,” I said, wishing that they would break the kids into groups not by gender, but by activity preference.  But what did I care that day…my boy wanted to be in the boy group. And, the next day he wanted to be a cheerleader.    All Posts Main Site Header effeminate Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow C.J. Goes to Summer Camp  The kids are still on summer vacay and life will be hectic during the next two weeks as we transition back into the world of academia, so forgive me if the next few blog posts are lackluster. C.J.’s Brother starts third grade next week and pre-K starts the following week.  I talk with C.J.’s new teacher about his gender creativeness at the end of next week.  Wish me luck and think good thoughts! Have you heard the news… Yesterday, ABC’s Nightline did a really interesting special on transgender kids and their families.  Read more here. On Wednesday, The Santa Barbara Independent ran a story titled “What If My Kid’s Gay.”  It’s alright.  Read it here. Since Chaz Bono was announced as one of the contestants on the new season of Dancing With The Stars, some people have been super pissed and suggested that either he shouldn’t be allowed to participate because he is transgender or they question whether he should compete as a male or female.  What’s being transgender got to do with it?  C.J.’s family will be watching and cheering Chaz on along with Cher, who should totes call us if she wants to come to our viewing party.   Read more here.    All Posts Chaz Bono Dancing With The Stars DWTS Nightline The Santa Barbara Independent The Endless Summer, Seriously  During my research of The Fraternal Birth Order Effect, I came across the following “facts” that I found to be interesting. Thought I’d share. Muah! “The fraternal birth order effect is limited to younger boys who are right-handed. In other words, if a younger boy has many older brothers but is left-handed, he does not have an elevated chance of being gay…The right-handed exception to the fraternal birth order effect was particularly surprising because other research had previously uncovered another puzzler: Both men and women who are left-handed are slightly more likely to be gay.” (source: San Francisco Chronicle) “With regard to sexual orientation, the most likely outcome of childhood gender identity disorder is homosexuality or bisexuality.” (source: Wikipedia) “Prenatal exposure to nicotine, amphetamine, or thyroid-gland hormones increases the chances of giving birth to lesbian daughters.” (source: Wikipedia) “Stress in pregnancy makes birth of a gay son likelier.” (source: Wikipedia) “Curiously, gay men also have fingerprint patterns rather like those of heterosexual women. Most people have more fingerprint ridges on their right hand. Jeff Hall and Doreen Kimura (1994) observed that this right-versus-left difference is less true of females and gay males than of heterosexual males–a difference that these researchers believe is due to prenatal hormones.” (source: Soulforce)    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming raising a gay child Raising gay child The Fraternal Birth Order Effect Some Facts I Found….  The Fraternal Birth Order Effect.  It sounds super serious.  Like a group out of The Da Vinci Code, a fraternity at Harvard or a secret club of the uber-rich and houtie toutie.  I feel like there are secret handshakes involved, aged scotch in snifters, dark wood paneling and signet rings.  Men in ascots for sure. A reader tipped me off to the Fraternal Birth Order Effect some time ago, but the name seemed daunting and, frankly, I’ve been too tired for research and the new season of Project Runway is in full swing. But, on Friday night, while my husband was at work, in the quietness of the house after the boys’ bedtime, I could hear Google calling.  I stayed awake until midnight (that’s 3 a.m. in Mom Time) reading everything that I could about the Fraternal Birth Order Effect.   The Fraternal Birth Order Effect is proven to mean that for each older brother that a physical male has his chances of being homosexual increase by approximately 33 percent.  According to several studies, the Fraternal Birth Order Effect is the strongest known predictor of sexual orientation.  The same is not true for females.  Have lots of older sisters?  It doesn’t increase your chances of being a lesbian.  Sorry, this predictor of sexual orientation is for boys only. The Fraternal Birth Order Effect holds true for boys born from the same mother but not raised together.  It does not hold true for boys adopted into the same family.  Therefore, it has an “in-utero environmental causation.”  Which is a big fancy way to say it happens during pregnancy. After my Google fit, I couldn’t stop thinking about all of the boys I know who have multiple older brothers.  I was counting little gay brothers to go to sleep.  I thought of those shirts they sell that say “I’m the Big Brother” and “I’m the Little Brother.”  The last-born son should have a shirt that reads “I Have the Highest Chance of Being the Gay Brother.” I couldn’t stop thinking about families with lots of boys.  The Beckhams.  The Jonas Brothers.  The Kennedys.  The Marx Brothers.  The Duggars.  Oh no, not one of the 10 Duggar boys… It is hypothesized (look at me using big words!) that the Fraternal Birth Order Effect has “something to do with changes induced in the mother’s body when gestating a boy that affects subsequent sons. ” (source: Wikipedia) “The theory suggests that mothers during childbirth may develop antibodies to proteins made by their firstborn son’s Y chromosome, and subsequent pregnancies may stir up those antibodies in an immune reaction that affects the development of a male fetus.” (source: San Francisco Chronicle) In the next decade or so, C.J. may need a shirt that reads “I Was the Last Son in My Mom’s Uterus and All I Got Was This Stupid Sexuality.”  C.J.’s Brother may very well have stolen the heterosexuality right out of my womb. Maybe heterosexuality proved no match for the kick ass antibodies my body created in response to carrying my first son.  My antibodies should have capes and masks and patent leather, knee-high stiletto boots. I was proud of my antibodies for a minute, thinking that they were superheroes.  Then, I thought, what if science learns to alter those antibodies so they decrease the likelihood of the Fraternal Birth Order Effect? Could women and doctors start messing with hormone injections during pregnancy to prevent homosexuality? Maybe, one day, when I have the courage and energy, I’ll try giving that a Google. * * *  Are you a gay male?  What is your birth order?  What does your sibling lineup look like? Are you raising a gay male or gender nonconforming son?  What is their birth order?  What does their sibling lineup look like? C.J. is gender nonconforming, the second of two sons.      All Posts Main Site Header effeminate Fraternal Birth Order Effect Gay Gay pride Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Project Runway Queerty Raising My Rainbow Wikipedia The Fraternal Birth Order Effect  The women in my family can sew. For generations they have made their own clothes, quilts, costumes, pillows, tissue box covers, curtains, prom dresses, you name it. The talent was also passed on to my brother, Uncle Uncle, who once even sewed a bra — using no pattern — and filled it with pounds of bird seed to simulate the heft and sag of real breasts. Yes, my brother has mad sewing skills and heaving breasts, and I have neither. I have never been so thankful for Uncle Uncle’s way with a sewing machine until he arrived at our house in the nick of time this weekend. Nana Grab Bags had just bought C.J. this washcloth. During the course of bathing with it he was struck by inspiration. He wanted it on a shirt. “You mean you want a Tiana shirt?,” I asked. “No, I want this Tiana on a shirt,” he replied, like he was speaking to a complete imbecile. “You want that washcloth on a shirt?” “Yeeeeaaaaaaahhh,” he said as his head weaved from left to right and right to left with massive amounts of attitude. “I don’t know if we have a shirt….” “I know which one!,” he dashed off and returned with this shirt of his father’s, which C.J. says is “soft and wiggly,” but not “nice.” I got my sewing machine out and stalled. And stalled. And stalled. And, then, Uncle Uncle arrived. After a serious talk about C.J.’s design concept and a purple marker was used for added allure, the first piece of C.J.’s Fall 2011 collection was complete. Thank you Uncle Uncle for understanding and supporting C.J. when the rest of us are a little slow. * * * In Monday’s post (Which Way to Pre-K?) I asked if you thought that I should explain to C.J.’s new Pre-K teacher that he is gender nonconforming or let her figure it out on her. Pretty much everybody thought that I should give her a heads up. That’s what my gut was telling me, too. I’ll have to let you know how that goes. Thanks for all of your comments and e-mails!    All Posts Main Site Header Disney Disney Princess effeminate Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow The Princess and the Frog Tiana C.J.’s Fall 2011 Collection  We like to rock out in the car.  I have been known to dance in the driver’s seat and sing so loud and with such a flair for the dramatic that C.J.’s brother once told me, “Mom, sometimes you embarrass me even when nobody is around.”   And, here I thought I was a “cool” mom. That I might even be promoted to M.I.L.F status when the kids are old enough to know what the “F” in M.I.L.F stands for.  After all, it’s secretly — and sometimes not so secretly — what most Orange County moms aspire to. So, C.J.’s Dad got us Sirus Radio when we got a new car and stopped living the mini-van dream.  Kids Place Live is my channel of choice when the kidlets are passengers; it’s Cosmo Radio when I’m riding solo. And, our favorite song on Kids Place Live is Brady Rymer’s “Love Me For Who I Am.”  The main line in the song?  The main take-away?  “Please don’t try to fix me, love me for who I am.”  Sing it Brady!  It reminds me so much of C.J.   The song was inspired by differently-abled kids, but could be an anthem for any kid who is different.  NPR says that Brady Rymer and his rootsy, funky rock ‘n’ roll band “might just be the best-sounding band in children’s music.”  C.J. agrees and gives Brady Rymer two little thumbs up…actually he puts his two index fingers up and thinks he’s giving the thumbs up sign, but you get the drift.  Enjoy the lyrics!     All Posts Brady Rymer Cosmo Radio Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Kids Place Live Orange County raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Sirus Radio Love Them for Who They Are  C.J.’s Dad and me: So, when we get home from Colorado we have to unpack, pack, drop the boys off with Pa and Grandma Grab Bags and, then, we are headed to San Diego. Grandma and Grandpa Colorado: What are you going to San Diego for? Me: Well, we are going to a conference for bloggers, because I started a blog about raising C.J. Them: What’s a blog? Me: It’s like a journal online that other people can read. Them: We’re not on Facebook. Me: It’s not Facebook.  It’s like a website where I can write whatever I want. Them: On the interweb? Me: Yes, the internet. Them: Are we blocked from seeing it, like Facebook? Me: No it’s not blocked, you can see it. Them: We don’t really go on the internet and we definitely don’t do Facebook. If this is wrong, I don't wanna be right. The subject changes seamlessly to talk of the weather, cinnamon bears being more aggressive than black bears and the neighbor up the street who loved his hunting dog more than his wife. Grandma Colorado: You know, our good friends told us that you were writing inappropriate articles about C.J. online.  This must be what they were talking about. My heart sinks into my stomach, which drops to my knees, which start to shake.  My face flushes as I feel anger and sadness. Everyday people disagree with my choice to chronicle my adventures in raising C.J. and my skin has grown thick.  But, when the criticism comes from closer to home the pain is fresh. Me: Not everybody agrees with my decisions initially, but if they really take the time to read my writings, they usually change their mind.  You know, I actually kind of have a lot of people reading my blog and I feel like I’m doing something important. Grandma Colorado: Well, I don’t know.  I don’t go on Facebook.  All I know is we’re going to love C.J. no matter what. Me: Well, that’s all that matters. Silent minutes absorb the evening. Grandma Colorado: I just can’t believe that C.J.’s Dad is so forgiving of C.J. Me: What do you mean? Grandma Colorado: I can’t believe that C.J.’s Dad is so forgiving of C.J… and you, I guess.  Because your brother is gay and C.J. is the way he is. Me: Do you mean forgiving or accepting? Grandma Colorado: Accepting, I guess. I say nothing, because if I open my mouth I’m not sure what will fly out.  I’m not, by nature, an insecure person.  But, in that moment my mother-in-law, bless her speak-before-you-think heart, hit on one of my biggest insecurities: that C.J. being gender nonconforming, effeminate and possibly gay is my fault. That I should be thankful that my husband is a big enough man to not hold C.J.’s gender creativeness and possible future sexual orientation against me. Me: Well, that just means that you did something right. Later, I talk to my mom about it on the phone. Nana Grab Bags: Well, if someone has to be blamed then the blame goes on me because I had Uncle Uncle. She laughs and I try to, too.  If fault has to be found, then we are your girls. Later, Grandpa Colorado sneaks up behind me while I’m on his computer. Grandpa Colorado: Can you add your blog to my “favorites” tab? Me: Sure Nothing more was said, or has been said.    All Posts Main Site Header Colorado effeminate Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow They Know, Though They Don’t Understand  In February and March, I started sharing bits of our journey on Instagram. Some of my readers aren’t on Instagram and have asked me to share posts here as well. So, following are highlights from March. Click here to view every post. If you’re on Instagram, follow me. If you already follow me, ignore this post. Or not. It’s up to you.  “To be gender nonconforming is to risk being killed, but on a daily basis it more likely means being harassed, confused and misunderstood in the community or maltreated by mental health professionals. . . . There is no doubt that these children are among the ranks of minority individuals in our society who must anticipate bigotry and antipathy from those who either do not understand, are ill-informed, govern their thinking with myth rather than reality or . . . project hatred onto those who are different from themselves. At the same time, gender creative children diverge from almost all other minority children in that they have an additional mark against them: they may face aspersion from their very own family, loved ones who are supposed to be their protectors.” Diane Ehrensaft in her book Gender Born, Gender Made. The statistics for kids like CJ are scary. Compared to his straight cisgender peers, he is prone to the highest rates of depression, addiction, unsafe sexual behaviors and suicide rates. The most important thing families can do to improve those statistics is simple. Love and support the child no matter what. “I love you no matter what.” Matt and I say it to both of our boys. Our love for them isn’t conditional. No matter who they are, who they love and what other people say, we love them no matter what. “We studied Mary Cassatt at school today and did art like she did. My art teacher said we could make a boy hat or girl hat for our person. I rolled my eyes at her on the inside because she is an artist and she should know that there is no such thing as boys’ hats and girls’ hats. This is me. I’m in a shirt and bow tie because people always dressed fancy in those days. And I gave myself a hat that the art teacher said was a girls’ hat. When she said that I rolled my eyes at her again on the inside.” — CJ, age 10. Three cheers for loving and supportive grandparents who know that one of their grandsons will want a pink chocolate bunny, instead of a blue one. CJ: Mom! Look! Doesn’t my eye makeup look so much better than yours?! 😃😊 Me: Yes! Part of parenting is wanting better for your children, but I’d like my makeup to look that good too. “It takes a village to healthily launch a gender nonconforming child into adulthood. But that’s not always how the siblings want to spend their time.” — Diane Ehrensaft, PhD. There are some struggles and challenges that come with being the sibling of an LGBTQ person. Chase and I have that in common. At nearly 14 years old, Chase is source of constant wonder to me. He loves video games, he taught himself to play the guitar, he listens to classic rock, his hobby is photography and he has mad skills in the kitchen. While CJ reminds me of my brother, Chase is like no one I’ve ever met. I’ve never witnessed a cisgender straight boy become a man. Chase is the very best brother that CJ could have. He is kind, loving, supportive and protective. He also calls CJ out on his shit, doesn’t treat him special and holds him accountable. Sometimes that’s exactly what CJ needs. Serving Florida retiree goes to lunch with her gurls, eats Cobb salad and is home by 2 pm realness. “Look, Mom! I made gender nonconforming cups. The boy cup is wearing a dress and the girl cup is wearing a jersey.” — CJ, age 10 Kids (all people, actually) look for themselves in other people and things. CJ notices anything that is a fellow redhead — from Ariel to orangutans. He also notices anything that is gender nonconforming. And, if given the chance, he’ll make things gender nonconforming.   Much to CJ’s displeasure, I’ve been monopolizing the sewing machine lately. He’s kept himself busy making food out of felt, which he can sew by hand. “Should I use a whip stitch or a back stitch?” he asks me. “What’s the difference?” I ask. (Clockwise from top: doughnut, pop tarts, carrot, egg, toast) “What should I do now?” He asks. He knows better than to say “I’m bored,” he knows I’ll say “Only boring people can be bored.” He doesn’t much like electronics or technology. Sometimes I wish he’d just play on the iPad and chill for a minute. Nope. He always wants to be creating and crafting. Today he is making felt finger puppets. Most 10-year-old boys read and follow Lego instructions, my boy reads and follows sewing patterns. Oh, and he’s pissed that this pattern says to make pants for a boy puppet and a skirt for girl puppets. “Boys can wear skirts and girls can wear pants!” he declared. “I’m going to put my boy in a skirt!” Take that pattern maker! When your son’s messy bun is better than yours and you want to hate him for it but you love him too damn much. Like most gender nonconforming boys, CJ’s closest friends have always been girls. His girl friends are funny, smart, colorful, loyal, kind, accepting, supportive and fiercely protective. And, they write him notes like this: You are the peanut to my butter. Twinkle in my eye. Shake to my bake. Blue to my sky. Sprinkles to my sundae. Flip to my flop. Jewel on my crown. Milk to my shake. Beat of my heart. But, most of all, MY BEST FRIEND. I’d walk through a fire for you! Well, not fire because it’s dangerous…but a super humid room. But not too humid, because my hair….      All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Instagram LGBTQ Orange County parenting Our Month In Review: March 2017  I seriously have no time for a blog post tonight, ya’ll are just gonna have to forgive me.  Why, you may ask?  Because I’m BlogHer bound baby!  San Diego here I come. BlogHer is the biggest and bestest conference for female bloggers in the world.  And, tomorrow night, I’ll be recognized as one of 2011’s Voices of the Year.  If you really MUST read something between now and my next post on Monday, click here and read the celebrated posts written by the other fabulous honorees.  I’m off to get myself packed and C.J. and his Brother over to Nana Grab Bags’ house for a weekend of crafts and candy and ignored bedtimes.  Three days with 3,000 women bloggers and only 10 drinks tickets.  This should be interesting…            All Posts 2011 Voices of the Year BlogHer San Diego BlogHer Bound Baby!  Last week I announced a giveaway from Handsome In Pink. Thanks to everybody who checked out the Handsome In Pink website and entered to win! The super lucky winner is commenter #54, Jesse R.! Congrats, Jesse, C.J. picked your name out of his purple velevet handbag and then got upset because he thought he had to give you his Handsome In Pink shirt. Once he learned that you won your own Handsome In Pink shirt, and not his, he was happy for you. In my last post I mentioned that we hadn’t seen a rainbow in Colorado. That all changed on Wednesday, much to C.J.’s delight.    All Posts Colorado Handsome In Pink And, the Handsome in Pink Winner is……  If C.J. were Oprah and this were his favorite things episode he would give all of you clothes from Handsome In Pink.  But, C.J. isn’t Oprah and he only has one item to giveaway, so you are all going to have to fight for it like Jerry Springer’s audience. Here is C.J. in his all-time favorite shirt, which is by Handsome In Pink.  It’s a purple number with a pink dirt bike on the front.  I also like the “Handsome In Pink” printed on the back.   The amazing gals at Handsome In Pink have been kind enough to offer up an item for giveaway to one Raising My Rainbow reader.  Lucky you…maybe.  And, now, a word from our sponsors… “Handsome in Pink is a groovy Oakland, Calif., clothing line that started in 2007. Our mission has always been to empower people (babies, kids, & adults) by undressing stereotypes and offering clothes that actually reflect who we are and what we like to do. We believe that colors (such as pink and purple) and active imagery (such as fire trucks, tool belts, and electric guitars) belong to everyone and should be mingling, not dividing up along gender lines. The way we see it, there should be more sharing of clothes amongst girls and boys.” To enter this giveaway, go to their website at www.HandsomeInPink.com and, then, leave a comment at the bottom of this post telling me what item you would want if you won.  A winner will be selected randomly by C.J. and announced next Thursday.    All Posts gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Handsome In Pink Raising My Rainbow C.J. is Handsome In Pink  We have these friends. They don’t let their son play with toy guns, swords or weapons of any kind. “Hero Play” is forbidden. Acts of violence or saving another child from a pretend act of violence are frowned upon. Their son can now make a weapon out of anything. He can build complex weapons out of Legos. A pillow is a shield, a stick is a sword, a play broom’s handle is a super machine gun with an imaginary scope. If he goes into a house that has toy artillery, he can and will sniff it out like he’s jonessing for his next hit of the good stuff. He rapid fires with his lips, loving the noise and spit that fly out of his mouth. The parents have forbidden something that he wants and now, either as a result of their limitations or not, he searches out the forbidden fruit. And, if he can’t find it, he’ll create  it on his own.  He can think about nothing else. It’s kind of how C.J. is about all things feminine. Not that we forbid it, but we don’t (aren’t able) to spoil our children. His favorite activities are arts and crafts and playing dress up and make believe. He’s fine with our assortment of art supplies, but will never be satisfied with our dress up wardrobe. So, he creates costumes and make believe girly things on his own. Some people have said that he won’t play with “girl” stuff if we don’t buy it for him. Really? Check this out. Here he is a while ago. He took Nana Grab Bags’s favorite apron, scoured my walk-in closet for the perfect shoes and used a calculator from the junk drawer as a cell phone. He said that he was “Mommy going to work.”  And, here he is after a trip to the toy store, where he was refused a pair of pom-poms because earlier in the day he had not been a very good listener, had wiped his boogers on his brother and called him a poo-poo head. Yes, those are bath poufs. He wore them for hours and days on end and referred to them as his pom poms…until they got covered in spaghetti sauce one night at dinner. The good thing about bath pouf pom poms? They wash easily. He was back in the game, I mean sidelines cheering, in no time.  Our dress-up drawers are loaded with equal parts traditional girl and boy costumes and accessories. He liked the feel and fabric of this number. The long sash in the back sent him over the edge. It was originally the shirt from a boys Arabian Nights costume, but that’s not how C.J. prefers it. He marched himself straight to the garage and found some rope. He cut it with blunt scissors and made me tie it at the waist. Hello belted shirtdress!  Here we have C.J. wearing a Valentine’s Day-themed dish towel as a stylish hearted skirt. After sneaking a belt from his brother’s room he held the towel up to his waist and insisted that I belt it to him. St. Valentine would be proud.  We’ve learned that C.J. is really creative. He doesn’t need new things, as long as he is allowed to create and turn stuff into exactly what he has in mind. We’ve learned that even if we don’t buy him feminine costumes and toys, he will find a way to play with them, imagine them, make them on his own. In our house, our plastic guns, swords and light sabers are safe from C.J., but our belts, aprons and bath poufs are not.    Main Site Header effeminate Gay Gay pride Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting prehomosexual protogay Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Bath Pouf Pom Poms  Thanks to all of you who reached out to me after my last – rather emotional – post.  Every comment and e-mail of support means tons to my husband and me. I wish all of you lived on our street; we could have some pretty crazy block parties. A lot of you suggested ways to connect with other families like ours. Three cheers for PFLAG! I do attend meetings locally, when I can get a babysitter. I walk away from every meeting feeling so hopeful.    Another popular suggestion was the annual Gender Spectrum Conference.  And, wouldn’t you know, they reached out to me as well. I can’t attend this year’s conference, but I’m looking forward to attending next year.  Here’s more info for those of you who don’t already have big, glamorous plans for July 29 through August 1. A little birdy told me that scholarships are still available. You should look into that. That same birdy should be advised that I’ll need a scholarship next year. Thanks-sies! CALLING ALL GENDER NON-CONFORMING YOUTH AND THEIR FAMILIES! The 2011 Gender Spectrum Family Conference in Berkeley, July 29-August 1, will bring together youth, families and professionals for a weekend of support, learning and celebration of transgender and gender creative young people. The weekend is a transformative experience for all involved. We’ll have more than 30 workshops for adults, Kids Camp for ages 5-8, a brand new Tween Program for children ages 9-11, and our fabulous Teen Program. REGISTER NOW for The 2011 Family Conference or The 2011 Professionals’ Workshop. For more info visit: www.genderspectrum.org, or contact us at info@genderspectrum.org, (510) 567-3977. One more thing….Little old me has been named one of 2011’s Voices of the Year by BlogHer, the leading participatory news, entertainment and information network for women online.  In particular, I’ve been recognized for my post titled “I See the Rainbow, Not the Muddle.”  Which also answers the question that many new readers have: “Have you considered that C.J. is not gay, but transgender?”     All Posts 2011 Voices of the Year BlogHer Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Spectrum Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting PFLAG raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow They Like Me…They Really, Really Like Me  I’m back on the mainland after a six-day holiday in Kauai, Hawaii, with C.J.’s brother. It was so nice to spend time one-on-one with my oldest son. My hubby also liked having alone time to bond with C.J. Mental note: If it’s so good for the family, I’ll have to vacay in exotic locales more often. A trip to the ABC Store proved fruitful as always. We arrived home bearing gifts: chocolate covered macadamia nuts, Kona coffee, key chains, necklaces with shark teeth and a hula dancer costume for our dress-up collection.  The grass skirt, lei and top have required I add a few lines to the list of Things I Never Thought I’d Say To My Son: • Daddy can’t have another hula lesson right now, he’s grilling dinner. • No, I don’t have any boobies to give you to put in the bikini top. • You can’t wear the grass skirt in the pool or it will get ruined. • Yes, you look like a real hula girl. • I’m sorry but your brother is right, your skirt does stink.    All Posts My Son the Hula Dancer   C.J.’s Brother and I are pretty lucky peeps. We are with my BFF and her family, spending the 4th of July holiday in Hawaii. I brought my laptop and had every intention of writing a post for yesterday. Then I rediscovered my love of POG juice and rum and ocean views and just like that…my very best intentions were forgotten….poof. My regular posting schedule will resume on Thursday. Until then….    All Posts Aloha!  I love Nordstrom Rack, though I rarely have the patience for it. If you’ve shopped there with children, you understand.  If you haven’t shopped at Nordstrom Rack with kids, I equate it to shopping at IKEA with only 20 minutes to find the perfect item, write down the sku number, find your way to a check stand and place your order. All while being followed by a bum asking you for spare change every two and a half minutes.  And, the bum steps on your foot and knocks something over and you are responsible for picking that something up.  Hurry the clock is ticking. Anyway, C.J. and I were at Nordstrom Rack when he eyed these shoes and said that he HAD to have them. The internal debate that these shoes caused is ridiculous. They are “girl” shoes, yes.  Would anybody at his school tease him? Probably not. Would they make his brother feel uncomfortable? Yes, really uncomfortable because, at age 8, he is more aware of and susceptible to teasing. How would C.J.’s Dad feel about the shoes? How would the grandparents feel? Could I get them and restrict them to only the house?  Is that a waste of $20? If my little girl wanted “boys” shoes would I let her get them without as much thought? C.J. was still looking at me, waiting for my answer. “I have an idea!  Why don’t we make our own sparkle shoes?!“ “Yeah!” C.J. said, much to my relief. Here’s the finished product. He picked out the plain black Chucks and I got the rhinestones at the craft store.  The next day after school we spent some quality time getting crafty and viola!  Crisis averted. C.J. now has his very own sparkle shoes , which are way cooler than Skechers any day. The compliments are never-ending and he is so proud to tell people that he made them himself. And, a compliment came my way recently. A mom wrote me the following e-mail and it made me proud; proving again that what I’m doing here is worth the trouble. I love my readers. Thanks for being a part of our adventures. “Hello CJ’s mum I think you are wonderful. Because of you l have truly opened my heart up to my four year old boy. Embraced his love of Barbie dolls & pretty dresses. And he is so thrilled in his love of all things girl, you can often hear him say. I don’t care. I like dolls. Which swells my heart. Your blog has changed my (our) life.”    All Posts effeminate Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Ikea Nordstrom Rack Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Skechers C.J. Enters the Footwear Industry  This is Diane Ehrensaft. If you see her, give her a hug from C.J. and me. Diane Ehrensaft is the patron saint of kids who don’t conform to traditional gender norms. She should be celebrated with a day off of work/school; a Saint Diane medal to be worn by families with gender creative loved ones; a mural of her portrayed as a Pied Piper-type with a gaggle of kids of varying genders following happily behind her; or whatever it is good people do to honor their beloved patron saints. Besides being the special guardian of gender creative children, Ehrensaft is a developmental and clinical psychologist who has, for the past 25 years, worked with gender nonconforming children and their families. She just released her latest book, which is titled Gender Born, Gender Made.  Ehrensaft is a brainy broad. By writing Gender Born, Gender Made, she hopes to “carve a path toward gender health for all the children and youth who go against the normative gender grain of our culture.” She calls these children “gender creative” instead of the usual “gender variant” or “gender nonconforming.” Gender creative just sounds so much more pleasant and befitting of these special kids. I’ll use it from here forward. Her book should be recommended reading for all parents-to-be; although it might scare first-timers, who probably haven’t even considered that their precious little peanut could be a boy who wants to be a girl, or vice versa, or both, or something even more unique. When C.J. saw the book cover he said, "Look Mommy a boy like me!" But, seriously, Gender Born, Gender Made should be required reading for all parents and family members even remotely involved in the life of a gender creative child. Diane Ehrensaft can relate to parents of gender creative kids because she was one. Her grown son was gender creative and now identifies as gay. She explains that “gender creative is a developmental position in which the child transcends the culture’s normative definitions of male/female to creatively interweave a sense of gender that come neither totally from the inside (the body, the psyche), nor totally from the outside (culture, others’ perceptions), but resides somewhere in between.” She acknowledges the harm done to gender creative children, should they fall into the wrong hands. The wrong hands may belong to people in her profession, only a small number of which “are just beginning to embark on a long project of reexamining what it means to be a gender-healthy boy, girl or other in the twenty-first century.” Her model for raising gender creative children “follows the child’s lead and goes where the child takes us. It assumes that the child most likely comes to us with his or her gender creativity intact, rather than being shaped after birth by hapless parents who have some gender-skewed agenda or are incapable of setting appropriate limits with their children and providing proper gender guidance.” And, that is, of course, what I like most about Ehrensaft. She takes the blame off of the parents and makes a strong case for convincing others to do the same. It’s nice to have the blame and guilt lifted a little, I was able to take a breath. She acknowledges that “in the face of confusion, disapproval and outright opposition, it is a challenging, confusing and brave journey that parents embark on when gender creative children appear on the family scene.” You tell ‘em, Diane Ehrensaft! She calls gender creative children “blessed with the ability to hold on to the concept — that we all had one time in our lives — that we were free to be anything we wanted – boy, girl, maybe both.” Nobody has ever told me that my child is “blessed” because he is gender creative…more often than not they tell me the complete opposite. Thank you Diane Ehrensaft! Then Diane Ehrensaft made me sad. “To be gender nonconforming is to risk being killed, but on a daily basis it more likely means being harassed, confused and misunderstood in the community or maltreated by mental health professionals…There is no doubt that these children are among the ranks of minority individuals in our society who must anticipate bigotry and antipathy from those who either do not understand, are ill-informed, govern their thinking with myth rather than reality or…project hatred onto those who are different from themselves. At the same time, gender creative children diverge from almost all other minority children in that they have an additional mark against them: they may face aspersion from their very own family, loved ones who are supposed to be their protectors.” Diane Ehrensaft owes me some tissues. She goes on to offer practical steps for processes involved in raising a healthy gender creative child. Girlfriend lays some stuff out step-by-step. There are a lot of terms to learn and remember and some of it can be a little confusing and clinical, at least for this tired mumsy. Now I’d like Diane Ehrensaft to write a follow-up book featuring the stories of patients from toddlerhood to adulthood. Please don’t tell me I have to wait decades to read that book; I hear that saints can work miracles. Buy Gender Born, Gender Made…NOW…I’m serious.    All Posts Main Site Header Diane Ehrensaft effeminate Gender Gender Born gender creative Gender Made gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting Queerty Raising My Rainbow The Patron Saint of Gender Creative Kids  • Please stop staring at that lady’s hair and eat your breakfast. • Don’t jump on the trampoline with high heels on, you could hurt your ankles. • No, honey, you can’t ask if you can brush her hair, we don’t know her. • I don’t know where your Little Mermaid Squinkies are, did you check your purple purse? • Please put your pom-poms down and eat your dinner. • Yes, that apron does make you look like Alice In Wonderland. • Cool it on the lip gloss before bed, okay. It makes a mess on your pillowcase. • I know you’re Team Edward, Mommy is too. Have one of your own to add to my list? Leave a comment!    All Posts effeminate Gay Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Things I Never Thought I’d say to My Son  (This post can also be read at HuffingtonPost.com) During the last two weeks, I’ve read and heard a lot of misinformation about the rescission of federal guidance previously given to schools regarding the use of restrooms and single sex spaces by transgender students. I am the mother of a gender nonconforming child who has been bullied at school — with the most severe case occurring in the bathroom. I’m also a person who thinks everyone should be treated equally and with kindness and empathy. So, understandably, the confusion surrounding the rescission causes me great concern, especially when it is evident in educators and administrators – the people who spend the most waking hours with transgender and gender nonconforming students. Title IX is still in effect and it protects students from bullying, harassment and victimization based on presumed or confirmed sexuality, gender identity and gender expression. Over the summer, I surveyed educators and administrators about the federal (Title IX) and state laws in place to protect students based on their presumed and/or confirmed sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. More than 500 credentialed educators and administrators from 43 states participated in the survey. Of participants, 41 percent work at the elementary schools, 25 percent at middle schools and 34 percent at high schools. I asked for participation from people with all types of feelings about the LGBTQ community. The results of the survey are troublesome because they show just how little (if anything) educators know about Title IX and state laws that protect students who are perceived or confirmed to be LGBTQ. More than 50 percent of educators don’t know that there are federal laws (Title IX) in place that protect students from bullying, harassment and victimization based on confirmed or presumed sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. About 50 percent of educators don’t know if their state has laws in place to protect LGBTQ students. It’s important to clarify that the majority of the other 50 percent think that their state has laws protecting LGBTQ students, but they don’t know the type of laws (there are two types of Safe School Laws and there are No Promo Homo laws). If educators don’t know the federal and state laws, they can’t enforce them or spot a violation. LGBTQ students in their charge aren’t being protected and cared for as legally required and educators could be acting illegally and culpably. What types of information are schools/districts providing educators with regarding Title IX and state laws? Not much. According to 61 percent of educators, schools/districts provide no information about LGBTQ laws. “Literally nothing. I work in the largest county/public school system in the state of North Carolina and although our state is in the midst of horrific actions by our governor, who put HB2 into law (which requires all people to use the bathroom that corresponds to the sex on their birth certificate and not their gender), there has been no communication from the top down on this subject. Many teachers are not even aware that HB2 has anything to do with us as educators.”     — Elementary School Educator, North Carolina “None. I heard about a bathroom controversy with one of our students through the news and not from my own administration.”     — High School Educator, North Carolina “Little to none; bullying of any type is not a priority for administrators.”     — High School Educator, Louisiana “None. The district I work for is a hotbed for anyone who is not a True Christian. Our principal has sent out emails saying that Catholics, Jews, Muslims should not be allowed to teach. Secular or LGBTQ people don’t exist in his world.”     — Elementary School Educator, Texas Eleven percent of educators report that their school/district treats the negative and unlawful treatment of LGBTQ students as general bullying – even though the laws are different and the effects can be more severe. “We get the ‘normal’ don’t bully/harass training each year that most adults sort of ignore as part of the going through the motions of starting a school year.”     — High School Educator, Missouri “We received a book. We are just handed it and basically told to read it if we want. NO additional education or discussion.”     — Elementary School Educator, California “We got a big pamphlet about several issues around transgender issues; I’m guessing there’s more but I honestly didn’t go through the whole thing.”     — Middle School Educator, California Two percent of educators learn about the rights of LGBTQ students from the students themselves (not their school/district). “There is a Safe Zone training program created by members of student life. However, nothing that I can recall has come from administration regarding anti-bullying laws.”     — High School Educator, North Carolina If districts aren’t educating their educators about Title IX and state laws, should it be the responsibility of degree and/or teacher credentialing programs?  That would be a good place to start, but 88 percent of educators learned nothing about the laws while in college. Only five percent of educators have taken a college-level course on discrimination in the classroom and equity on campus. The course was not LGBTQ-specific, but covered all types of discrimination including: disability, learning differences, national origin, race, color, religion, sex, gender and sexuality. “During the section on ‘special students’ (where we covered a whole bunch of different topics, like homeless students, students with mental illnesses, students with minor disabilities that don’t require special ed.) We talked for about three hours about LGBTQ students, and student who have LGBTQ parents. It was pretty cringe-worthy, and it was obvious the teacher didn’t really have any clue what they were talking about.”     — Elementary School Educator, Montana I know that day in and day out educators are being told the myriad ways they are failing their students. I’m not here to do that. I acknowledge that educators, in general, want to help; after all, most got into education because they have a soft spot for children. Schools/districts, credentialing programs and professional development programs are failing educators by not teaching them about the special needs of LGBTQ students, the risks they face, the laws that protect them and the consequences of not following the laws. How do we make it easy for educators to learn these lessons if their employer and credentialing programs aren’t teaching them? Is it reasonable to expect educators to seek out the information and learn on their own? I don’t have the answers to those questions, but I do know that until we find and implement the answers, school will feel unsafe for LGBTQ students. Some kids will pee their pants (like my son did) because bullies live in the bathroom; some will drop out of because their future doesn’t seem as important as their present; and some will end their life because they have no hope that things will get better. If you are an educator, please learn more about Title IX and state laws that protect students from bullying, harassment and victimization based on presumed or confirmed sexuality, gender identity and gender expression. Following are some helpful links: ACLU Gender Spectrum GLSEN Human Rights Campaign (HRC) PFLAG Welcoming Schools    All Posts bullying Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Huffington Post LGBTQ LGBTQ Rights Orange County parenting Safe School Laws School Title IX transgender Survey Says: We Need to Educate Educators About Rights of LGBTQ Students  In C.J.’s preschool class there are about a dozen boys and one girl. Guess who’s C.J.’s BFF? The one little girl who he affectionately calls Cookie. Cookie plus C.J. sitting in a tree… “When you had your parent-teacher conference, did Ms. Sunshine talk to you about our kids needing to keep their hands to their selves and them being too touchy feely?” Cookie’s mom asked my husband recently. Ms. Sunshine hadn’t brought the issue to our attention. “Do you and Cookie touch each other at school?” we asked C.J. trying to seem very casual about the whole thing. “Yeah,” he said nonchalantly. “What do you mean?” we asked, meeting him on the corner of casual and nonchalant. “We hold hands and hug each ‘udder,” said C.J. “Do you kiss?” My question earned a wide-eyed look from C.J.’s Dad. “Gross!…Yeah, sometimes, Cookie asks me to kiss her on the cheek cause we’s gonna get married.” Cookie might be a good match for C.J. Or, she might confuse our gender nonconforming son even more. Cookie is a cutie with short brown curly hair, sleepy eyes and a bright smile. She wears old-school red Chucks, Toy Story shirts and carries a Batman backpack filled with her dinosaur toys. She likes all superheroes, but Spiderman and Iron Man are her absolute favs. Cookie is very territorial, I mean protective, of C.J. Her and C.J. have little in common, except that they both appear to be gender creative. They are a quirky match made on the preschool playground. Cookie’s identical twin sister, although in a different class, likes to play with them too. She moves fluidly between girl toys and boy toys and girl clothes and boy clothes. Yes, by age three he had perfected his signature pose. When an invite to Cookie and her sister’s pirate-themed fourth birthday party made it into C.J.’s backpack you’d have thought he’d been invited to New York Fashion Week. Finally, the day of the party arrived. It was not a girly pirate theme with pink jolly rogers sporting heart-shaped eye patches. No, this was a legit pirate party and dress up was encouraged. “C.J., we get to dress up for Cookie’s pirate party, isn’t that fun?” “Woo-hoo! I wanna be a princess.” “No, Cookie wants you to dress like a pirate.” “I don’t wanna be a pirate, I wanna be a princess.” “But, it’s Cookie’s party and she wants all of her friends to be pirates.” “When it’s my berfday party can my friends dress up how I want them?” “Sure.” Cripes almighty, that was a big promise that I hope he forgets, but he probably won’t, and I’ll have to deal with that when I get there, but I’m pretty sure all of the boys and dads won’t want to dress as princesses or cheerleaders (although that would be fun for me and my girlfriends to watch, I’m not going to lie). The sassiest superhero of them all. I loaded the pirate into the car. Burgers. Bounce house. Bubbles. Then, face painting. The birthday girls, naturally, got to be first. Cookie’s Sister wanted to be Captain America. Cookie chose Spiderman. Up next? C.J., who was painted into one fierce Wonder Woman. The three gender creative superheroes got together for a picture. “That’s so funny, the twins wanted to be boys and the boy wanted to be a girl,” I heard quite a few adult partygoers say. Time for balloon animals. Cookie and her sister requested swords. C.J. wanted a pretty pink flower. While the girls waved their swords at C.J.  He sniffed his aromatic latex daisy. Gift time! Cookie unwrapped the Super Hero Squad Headquarters that we got for her. Cookie’s Sister unwrapped the My Little Pony with baby pony and stroller. They both hopped up to hug C.J. in gratitude. They lingered and fought over who would release him first. When the embrace was done, C.J. turned to me in silent tears. “What’s wrong, honey?” “I want that My Little Pony.” “When it’s your birthday you can get that My Little Pony,” I said, knowing that was a promise I could and would make good on.    Main Site Header Cookie effeminate Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homosexual My Little Pony Orange County parenting prehomosexual Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Superheroes C.J. and Cookie Sitting In a Tree  Cheers to ah-mazing New York Times reporter Jan Hoffman for her recent article on parenting gender nonconforming kids. If you haven’t read it yet, check it out: “Boys Will Be Boys? Not in These Families” Share it via The New York Times site and/or leave a comment to support the writer and to let people know that this is an important issue that we want and need to read more about. Oh, and look for the Raising My Rainbow mention. Muah, Jan! We heart you! A question for you… This week I received a comment on one of my older posts titled “Teeth Cleaning and Tiaras.” The post was about C.J.’s trip to the dentist and the tiara that he selected out of the treasure chest post-visit for being a super-duper patient (which, at the age of four, means that he didn’t bite anybody when they put their hands in or around his mouth). Anyway, Raising My Rainbow reader Dannie wrote: “encouraging? or allowing? what is the difference? What do you think of the comment? Is Dannie implying that my allowing C.J.’s gender nonconforming behaviors is okay, but encouraging them and him is excessive and not advisable? That’s what I take from the comment. Which made me think. My final thought? If you can turn encouraging a child into a bad thing, something is wrong with you, not me.  What do you say? C.J.: "Daddy, can I make your shirt pretty?" C.J.'s Dad: "Sure" Love the glitter foam stickers. The best part? C.J.'s Dad forgot they were back there and wore the shirt all day. Thanks for all of the comments you’ve been posted. C.J’s Dad and I read every single one, repeatedly. Know that! We’re thankful for every single one, even those like the one above. And, finally…. Happy Father’s Day to C.J.’s Dad, a man who was born to be father and the best husband ever. And, Happy Father’s Day to you too.    All Posts Allowing vs. Encouraging  Tears. In. My. Eyes. That’ll teach me to watch CNN. Anderson “Eye Candy” Cooper’s report on “The Sissy Boy Experiment” made my heart break. Snapped right into tiny pieces.  “The Sissy Boy Experiment” was experimental therapy conducted on a five-year-old boy named “Kraig” in the 1970s at UCLA in an attempt to make him less effeminate and prevent him from growing into a gay adult. It was government-funded and considered to be a great success; even though the family says that it was disastrous, the boy grew up to be gay and, then, committed suicide, but not on his first attempt. Catch up on the CNN coverage here: http://www.cnn.com/2011/US/06/07/sissy.boy.experiment/index.html For more in-depth coverage of this story, Box Turtle Bulletin has a thorough examination of the impact that this “research” had on Kirk Murphy (“Kraig”) and his family. http://www.boxturtlebulletin.com/ Also on CNN, Ann Coulter declined to answer Piers Morgan when he asked what she would do if she had a gay child. For me, her silence confirms that she shouldn’t have children. But, that’s just me. http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/blogs/abraham/detail?entry_id=90553 God, grant me the serenity to be a better mother than Ann Coulter would be and the courage not to send my child to UCLA to be experimented on; and, wisdom, because we are different. Oh, and, watch over Anderson Cooper, too. Amen.    All Posts Anderson Cooper Ann Coulter CNN effeminate Gay Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow The Sissy Boy Experiment Let’s Not Experiment on the Children  It’s the time of the year again.  Yes, Open House season is upon us.  Time to head to your child’s school to see things made of construction paper, stand in line to talk to his/her teacher and fake-smile at other parents.  Come on kids, it’s time to look like a normal family! At C.J.’s Open House the walls were covered in colorful masterpieces.  One lesson was based on The Very Hungry Caterpillar by Eric Carle and the accompanying craft was a construction paper caterpillar made of circles in a color-specific pattern.  Here’s what the “perfect” caterpillar looked like.  And, here’s what C.J.’s caterpillar looked like.  He said he got “fus-ter-rated” because he wanted to make the caterpillar a girl AND a boy, but he was supposed to be going in a pattern.  He also decided to ditch the antennae in favor of long hair.  C.J.’s caterpillar was hard to miss. I’m about to go way off topic, so stay with me.  There’s something I’ve been wondering for several weeks now.  Do you think that it is possible for a homosexual person to not have to come out of the closet.  I don’t mean stay closeted for always and ever.  I mean never even enter the closet.  For instance, I’ve asked my oldest son if he thinks anybody in his class is cute.  I’m careful how I phrase it.  I don’t ask if he thinks any of the girls are cute.  I leave it open so that he can answer honestly.  Do you think an LGBT youth could grow up and never step foot in the closet (at least with immediate family), thus making the coming out process (with the immediate family) obsolete?  Can a family be so okay with homosexuality that, say, a fifth grade boy could tell his mom very comfortably that the boy in class in a Chargers jersey and still outgrowing his baby fat (or Baby Phat, who knows) is totes amazeballs? Please let me know what you think.  I’ve asked around and gotten very surprising answers.    All Posts Eric Carle Gay Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Gender variant homosexual Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Very Hungry Caterpillar What If He Never Has To Step Foot In The Closet  At this point, C.J. isn’t exactly athletic.  He’s good with rhythm and movement and loves gymnastics.  He especially hated (or hates, depending on the day) riding his bike.  He’s more Paul Hamm than Lance Armstrong (doping or not). Last week we were outside riding bikes with the neighbor boys.  C.J. is new to riding his bike with training wheels and just recently agreed to get on the thing without yelling “Too high!  Too scary!” in rapid succession until removed. The four boys were enjoying the freedom of the open road when C.J. crashed (it was more of a tip, but we’ll call it a crash here for dramatic purposes).  I ran over to him and he lay, on his side in the same bike-riding position, hands on handlebars, feet on pedals.  He did not try to break his fall.  The thought, apparently, didn’t even cross his mind. I got him and his bike to the curb as the tears stopped and he told me that he needed to lie down on the couch.  Okay, easy enough, I laid him on the couch, turned on the T.V. and went to check on his brother.  A few minutes later C.J. came out of the house with his right arm hanging lifeless at his side looking like Bob Dole.  I joked with my neighbor that for preschool the next day I would dress him in a suit and put a pen in his hand.   An hour later we were at the hospital. And me, the wise-cracker, was being told that my son, Bob Dole Jr., had a dislocated elbow that needed to be popped back into place.  Jokes over I guess. Three hours of specialists, x-rays and C.J. strutting his stuff around the hospital in his favorite Viking hat with long blonde braids and an unzipped hoodie (I couldn’t get his t-shirt back on him after taking it off to evaluate him at home).  We got lots of stares, as usual.  And, C.J.’s brother’s irritability was increasing.  The combination of seeing his brother in pain, waiting patiently in an uncomfortable chair for hours on end and people staring at us was more than he could take.   As we walked to the x-ray department, C.J. thrust his hips and head from side to side excessively to get his braids in full swing.  He was wearing a hospital gown because I couldn’t get him to take it off because it was, after all, a gown.  A mom in the x-ray department waiting room nudged her two children, pointed C.J. out to them and the whole family started laughing together.  I saw red.  I looked down and C.J.’s Brother was giving them an evil look that I didn’t know he had in him.  They didn’t even notice.  We sat down.   “Those people were pointing and laughing at C.J.,” he said as he went back to playing his Nintendo DS.  “He’s so embarrassing sometimes.” “Today isn’t a good day for us,” I said honestly.  “But what is worse, C.J. being himself or those people being rude?” “Both,” he mumbled without looking up.   I was thinking about how I usually try so hard to balance the wants and feelings of my two very different children but that was hard to do with one in pain and needing some extra attention.  The x-ray technician called C.J.’s name.   May you never have to hold your child as they pop one of his/her dislocated bones back into its socket.  They gave him an ibuprofen; I needed something stronger.  After the cute, I mean qualified, doctor got the bone(s) back into place, he needed to test the range of motion.  He grabbed a handful of superhero stickers and held them at different heights for C.J. to grab.  C.J. was not about to exert effort for a superhero sticker.   “He doesn’t like superheroes,” I said.  The doctor got up to leave the room in search of different stickers.  “Get girl stickers,” I shouted after him. “Who’s he going to give them to?” he asked as he turned back to me, like I thought that now was a good time to collect free stickers for the girls in our life.   “He likes girl stuff,” I said and motioned for the doctor to continue out of the room to get the stickers. The next day I took C.J. to Target to get some meds and splinting supplies.   “Can I get a toy?” he asked, as he does every time he gets into the red shopping cart. I usually say no, but, hell, this time the kid deserved a toy.  After careful consideration, he selected a pink satin cheerleader uniform with silver sequins and a pink and white pom-pom.  If C.J.’s brother thought that the blonde braids and hospital gown were embarrassing, he might not want to come home from the second grade today. If you were to ask C.J., he might say that the cheerleader uniform was worth the dislocated elbow.  He wore that uniform every minute that he was in the house for four days straight.  Then it ripped and fell apart, because 15 dollar happiness only lasts so long.      All Posts Main Site Header effeminate Gay Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Fifteen Dollar Happiness Only Lasts So Long  We’ve all read this story recently right? http://news.yahoo.com/s/yblog_thelookout/20110524/ts_yblog_thelookout/parents-keep-childs-gender-under-wraps Here are my two cents… One cent:     The headline reads “Parents Keep Baby’s Gender Under Wraps,” when it should read “Parents Keep Baby’s Sex Under Wraps…And Let it Declare its Own Gender.” Two cent:     I wouldn’t make the parenting decision that they have made. But, then again, a lot of people don’t agree with my parenting decisions (e.g. this here blog you are reading). What are your thoughts? Now for the winner of the first-ever Raising My Rainbow giveaway!  I instructed those who wanted to be entered to leave a comment at the end of last Thursday’s post.  I received 44 comments.  I wrote numbers one through 44 on a sheet of paper and had C.J. circle the number he liked best.   He circled the number five first (then 22 through 24, 28 and 29).  So congrats to the following commenter, I must say, by his comment, he is VERY deserving! Greg (may 21,2001 at 6:43 p.m.) says: If I get picked I will donate the book to the high school Library where I am a teacher. we had an incident this week where a closeted student was harassing another student about being gay. I think this book will help both of them.  Hey, are you all aware that Queerty.com is back online and Raising My Rainbow is back on Queerty?  Spread the word and check out the new Queerty. Have you found me on “The Facebook,” as C.J.’s Dad likes to call it?  Facebook.com/RaisingMyRainbow.  I’m on the Tweet Machine too (/RaisingRainbow), but I Facebook more. Additional tidbits on raising C.J. offered there, like when he put lip gloss in his hair and readers helped me find a solution to get it out.  BTW, acetone and rubbing alcohol good, dry shampoo bad. Are you reading my posts regularly?  You should subscribe.  Do it at RaisingMyRainbow.com in the upper, right-hand corner.  That would make you super cool and one of C.J.’s total besties. Finally, what country are you reading from?  If it’s not on this list let me know by posting a comment or sending me an e-mail or inviting me and my family for all-expense paid vacation to visit you and log the country personally.  Argentina Australia Bahrain Brazil Canada Chile Costa Rica Denmark France Germany Greece Ireland Norway Pakistan Scotland Spain Trinidad and Tobago United States United Kingdom     All Posts effeminate Gay Gay pride gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow Two Cents, a Giveaway and Some Housekeeping  We don’t get out much.  With our busy social schedules at home (you know, little league, gymnastics, kiddie parties, returning things to Target) and our lack of funds (hello, our primary breadwinner is a public servant), our kids aren’t exactly familiar with exotic locales.  Then, there’s Grandma and Grandpa Colorado who live in, get this, Colorado, so guess where all our summer vacations are spent. Well, along came a super-cheap weekend getaway package to Palm Desert and we packed our bags quicker than you can say over-chlorinated public pool with rats in the palm trees.  Fairfield Inn by Marriot.  Whoop, whoop! You may also know it, as C.J. does, as the place with two beds.  Four years of life and never slept in a hotel room with two queen size beds.  It blew his mind, really, and we had to allow a good 30 minutes for him to jump from one bed to the other and back again and again and again.  While he did that, C.J.’s brother opened and closed the pimping mini-fridge and put my half-full Vitamin Water on the top shelf, then the bottom shelf, then in the door shelf.  You’d of thought it was Christmas morning. And, then we were off!  A short driving tour of neighboring Palm Springs and C.J. discovered a city after his own heart. “LOOK AT THE RAINBOW FLAG!” he yelled as he hyper-ventilated. “ANOTHER ONE!” he gasped. “THERE’S ANOTHER ONE!” his face turning purple. “Did you teach him that?” C.J.’s Dad asked me. “How would I teach him that?” I replied.  “They don’t exactly let the rainbow flags fly free in the O.C.” “I just find it weird that of all the things to see in a new city, that is what he picks up on.  What are the chances?” he said, giving me a doubting look. “Maybe it’s like me being drawn to and liking the Tiffany-green Tiffany & Co. box upon first sight, without even knowing what it stood for.  Some passions you just know and feel in your soul,” I reasoned.  My husband dropped the subject, as he usually does when I mention Tiffany & Co. In answer to your question, yes, as a matter fact, there was a continental breakfast.  C.J. enjoyed a pink breakfast of waffles with strawberries on top and strawberry yogurt. To my boys, nothing compares to continental breakfast.  Nothing. We ventured to the Living Desert, which was ah-mazing.  C.J.’s Dad paid for the VIP shuttle and we rode around in a golf cart while C.J. waved to other visitors like he was Kate Middleton on her wedding day.  Later that day, we took the kids to the Palm Springs Aerial Tramway.  They were so excited; C.J.’s brother for the right reasons, C.J. for the wrong reasons. You see, C.J. thought that we said Ariel Tramway, not Aerial Tramway.  He thought that he was going to see Ariel (a.k.a The Little Mermaid).  He looked all over for her, bless his heart, but couldn’t find her.  And, he started crying the saddest quiet tears.  What would have been more perfect than a pink breakfast, rainbow flags and The Little Mermaid? He cheered up as the tram ascended the mountain.  Or so I’m told, since I didn’t go on the tram. You see, I don’t do well with closed spaces, heights, being at the mercy of someone else and my ears popping due to altitude.  Oh, you have your hang-ups too, so please don’t judge.  And, yes, I did consider taking a klonopin just to get myself up the damn mountain and experience it with my family, but that would have meant no margarita at Los Casuelas with dinner, so I let it be a cool “boys-only adventure.” After dinner C.J. got the souvenir that has not left his head since our return to reality.  A fuzzy Viking hat with long blonde braids attached.  He takes the braids out, puts them in ponytails, wants braids again, flips the hair over his shoulder like Cher. “I like my city,” C.J. said as we loaded into the car and started driving home on Sunday. “A RAINBOW FLAG!” he yelled and pointed as we drove away from Palm Springs. “ANOTHER ONE!” he screeched in delight, over and over again, until there were none.    All Posts Main Site Header effeminate Gay Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County Palm Springs parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising My Rainbow P.S. My Son Loves You  I’m reading the It Gets Better book and it has turned me into a rapid-cycling bipolar.  One minute I’m happy and thankful that Dan Savage and Terry Miller had the vision and dedication to make their It Gets Better Project an amazing reality.  The next minute I’m terribly sad and depressed because it shouldn’t have to get better.  It should already be better.  It shouldn’t have to get so bad that kids need to be reminded that it gets better.  I never want my son to feel hopeless.  I never want to be a mother who finds her son dead from a bullying-induced suicide. If you are reading this and you don’t know what the It Gets Better project is, you should. Check it out at ItGetsBetter.org. RaisingMyRainbow reader and It Gets Better contributor Patrick Murphy is a total superstar and sent me a copy of the It Gets Better book to give away to one of my readers.  To enter the giveaway, simply comment on this post.  C.J. will pick a winner next week (which should be interesting), so check back next Thursday to see if you won. If you know of an LGBT teen or have a sneaking suspicion about a certain someone, they need this book.  Their family needs this book.  The local schools and libraries need this book. Buy it from Penguin.com or Amazon.com. You can donate a copy to your local school or library by clicking here. Can’t read?  Get the audiobook here. Can’t read OR hear?  That really sucks.  I’m sorry.    All Posts bullying Dan Savage It Gets Better Patrick Murphy Raising My Rainbow It Doesn’t Get Better than an It Gets Better Giveaway!  Here’s what I know about children’s museums.  They are crowded.  They are grimy.  They are germy.  They are overrun with children and uber-parents.  They are no place for a hangover.  Maybe it’s different where you live, but I doubt it.  Then, I happened upon Pretend City and actually enjoyed myself (except for the part where I saw a one-year-old wearing jeans more expensive than any pair I own.  True Religions in size 18 months?  Really?) “Pretend City Children’s Museum is the first educational facility of its kind in Orange County, representing a small interconnected city.”  – Pretend City C.J. and I entered Pretend City and were overwhelmed, so we retreated to the less-crowded Construction Site to gather ourselves.  C.J. eyed a pink hard hat and suddenly had an affinity for carpentry.  He awkwardly picked up some tools and started, um, constructing.  When a little girl entered the Construction Site a student volunteer approached C.J., took off the pink hard hat and put a yellow one in its place.  “Hey Buddy, you probably want the yellow hat anyway,” she said as she walked the pink hard hat to the little girl.  I waited to see how C.J. would handle the situation.  He followed the student helper and said, “No, I want the pink one!”  She looked at me and I nodded.   She swapped the hats again and I was proud that C.J. didn’t have a meltdown, but handled the situation and stood up for himself.  That’s my boy, wearing a pink hard hat and wondering what to do with a hammer. From there we went to the Farm, where C.J. picked strawberries and harassed the tiny, puffy baby chicks from behind the glass.  We went to the Café, where C.J. served me pizza and called me “Mama Mia.”  We went to the Marina, but C.J. refused to fish because it was “too icky.” We spent most of our time, by far, at the Amphitheater, which is a stage complete with costumes and instruments; a soundboard that operates lights and music; and rows and rows of seating for a captive audience.  C.J. found his home in Pretend City. So many costumes, so little time.  Seriously. A silver flapper dress?  Oh, yeah, he rocked it for a while.  A pink princess gown?  It was his favorite.  Now, for the shoes.  Pink go-go boots?  They were fabulous, but zipped up to his crotch and were a tad bit inhibiting.  Ruby slippers?  Werk. With his outfit assembled it was time to hit the stage.  What?  Right, an instrument.  Tambourine or maracas?  Tambourine, you know it. He entered stage left, ready for his solo.  What?  There were other people on the stage?  C.J. rolled his eyes and then started throwing elbows to get down to center stage, where he belongs, obviously.  I tried to explain that sometimes you have to hang back and be in the chorus.  If looks could kill.  It was a solid hour of costume changes, prop switches and Broadway-worthy performances.  From time to time he would get the stage all to himself.  Those were the happiest of times.  Every now and then an un-costumed boy would enter the stage and stare oddly at C.J.  Those were the worst of times.   And, if C.J. did happen to see a strange look cast in his direction, he would, in return, give that child a look as if to say “I’m so sorry that you’re not fabulous like me.  Really it’s a shame.” I got looks too.  Parents smiled at the sight of C.J., up on stage, in a pink sequined princess dress with red sparkly Mary Jane’s.  Then, they searched the crowd for the adult to whom he belonged.  Some smiled with me, and I could tell that they were seeing an imaginative little boy expressing himself freely.  Others smiled at me, and I could tell they were seeing an embarrassment of a child who would, no doubt, have issues as an adult due to my horrible parenting skills.  We delight some and disturb others.  Yet another thing I learned at a children’s museum.    Main Site Header effeminate Gay Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Pretend City raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Forget Construction, I Belong on the Stage  I heart C.J.’s preschool teacher, Ms. Sunshine.  She understands C.J., celebrates him, supports him and thinks he’s pretty fabulous.  As C.J. approaches the end of his first full year in preschool, Ms. Sunshine scheduled the obligatory parent-teacher conference to discuss C.J.’s progress and educational future.  In attendance?  Ms. Sunshine, two other preschool professionals, C.J.’s Dad and me. Look what C.J. made at school! Ms. Sunshine is a Raising My Rainbow fan. Coincidence? I think not. The best line from C.J.’s six-page evaluation? “C.J. stands up for his rights.”  We are convinced that is Ms. Sunshine’s nice way of saying that C.J. is a total diva at school, just as he is at home. When I called her on it, she smiled and said that C.J. is an angel.  Apparently, sometimes, Ms. Sunshine lies. The best quote from the meeting?  One of the preschool pros said, “I just want to follow C.J. and know if he turns out to be a hairdresser when he grows up.  Because, every time I need his full attention and cooperation I bribe with the promise of getting to brush the hair of a princess doll that I have in class.” I’m glad that my son stands up for his rights; he’ll need that tenacity in life.  I’m also glad he has a thing for hair; because if he does turn out to be a hairdresser, this mama is gonna save a lot of money on highlights and lowlights.    All Posts effeminate Gay Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Ms. Sunshine Calls C.J. a Diva  Among the sports CJ likes? Golf! Last week, C.J. wrote a letter to the three PE teachers who rotate working at the elementary schools in his school district. In the letter, he explained that he doesn’t think they should segregate students by sex/gender during PE class. He sent a copy of the letter to his principal and teacher. His letter did not go unnoticed. One of his PE teachers replied saying that they group kids by gender so that “the girls will get a chance to play.” She said that “if you put 5 boys and 5 girls on a field together the boys will never throw the ball to the girls.” I cringed while reading her email. She did end it by saying that C.J. could join whatever group he wanted to when the class was divided by sex/gender during PE. He’d not previously been given that option; no kid had, as far as he could remember. C.J.’s amazing teacher sent him an email that he has read over and over. “I am so proud of you! You are one of the bravest kids I know, and I am so happy that you are in my class. No matter what happens, you spoke up and communicated your feelings, and that is a HUGE deal! I hope they make changes so all kids will feel comfortable,” she wrote. We need more teachers like C.J.’s teacher. C.J.’s principal replied letting him know that his letter was outstanding and conveyed a great message. She told C.J. that she forwarded it to her boss (our district’s director of Elementary Education) in hopes that it would spark a conversation for all schools – not just C.J.’s. “Thanks for being brave and for taking the time to write such a poignant letter.  I think that there are many adults who need to hear your message about equality and including everyone. I am proud of you!,” his principal wrote. The next day, the principal sent an email letting C.J. know that the district’s director of Elementary Education said that C.J. is “absolutely correct, and that she is going to be working on getting all PE teachers to understand.” How many kids have taken a stand, written a letter, had the encouragement of their teacher and principal AND had the principal’s boss tell them that they are right? “I am so proud of myself and happy! From now on, I’m going to stick up for myself and other kids even more. I think it was more important for my teachers to hear stuff from me instead of you,” C.J. told me. Rollerskating! Like I said in my last post, I’m so used to handling things like this for C.J. I’m used to advocating for and protecting him. I’m used to traveling a few steps ahead and trying to make things as right as possible for him. But, he’s older now. He’s stronger now. I need to get out of his way. I can’t clear his trail, he needs to blaze his own. Because his voice is more powerful than mine. A few days ago, I let C.J. read all of the social media and blog comments in response to his letter. He was beyond happy to hear that some people were going to read the letter to their gender creative kids and share it with their schools to spark consideration, conversation and, hopefully, some action. Here are some of his other favorite comments: “This letter is amazing. I wish I had written it 30 years ago. Maybe that would have gotten me out of gymnastics and into wrestling like I’d wanted to do.” — K. on Facebook “Hey CJ- I’m 35 now but fifth grade me wants to say THANK YOU. I was the girl who wanted this same thing but lacked the confidence you have to write this letter. Thank you, thank you for helping make the world better for the next generation. You are one of my heroes.” — B. on Facebook “Great job, CJ! I raised a child who felt the same way, all through middle school, and I’m certain that he wasn’t alone. Thank you for speaking up, for yourself, and for everyone else. You ARE making our world better!” — C. on my blog “Every time in school I was in an all-boys group for anything I was always scared and anxious because it meant possible humiliation or getting hit. When girls are mixed in with boys there is a civilizing vibe. I was never as anxious when the group was mixed and I could focus on the work at hand.” — S. on my blog And, finally, some teachers let us now how they split up students without relying on sex/gender. Here are our favorite tips: “What a great letter. Tell CJ that a great way of splitting people evenly is to have them clasp their hands together naturally. Split by who has their left thumb on top and who has their right. It’s about a 50/50 split of people.” — A. on Facebook I can’t find our other favorite tip that was posted, but it basically said that if your school/class uses the Class Dojo app (which ours does), the teachers can use it to split up classes in all sorts of ways. That sounds like a great, easy feature. This week, during PE the classes were not segregated by sex/gender. The physical activity of the day was dance. All the kids danced together and laughed together. As it should be. Monkey bars!    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Orange County parenting PE School School Responds to My Son’s Request to Stop PE Sex/Gender Segregation  (All photo creds go to: E! Entertainment) Emma Stone: LOVE. The end of it is the best part because it is fringe-y. I really liked La La Land. The music was the best. If I talked to the person who made that mistake at the end of the Oscars, I would say “Get it right, girlfriend.” Emma Stone looked the best out of everyone. Raphaela Neihausen: That is a toddler’s dress. Karlie Kloss: I like the cape. Capes always look cool. I would enjoy using my markers and coloring on that dress. Jessica Biel: No, no, no, no, no. That didn’t look right to me. That dress reminds me of a video game that won’t load all the way. That necklace is too much for that dress. Octavia Spencer: The bottom of her dress is like feathers waving at me and I say “Hey, gurl, hey” to those feathers. Brie Larson: I like it because the bottom looks like a mysterious top hat. Dakota Johnson: Ugh. I don’t event want to talk about that one. Janelle Monae: That top. Everyone can see her nipples. Then there is the bottom. The bottom is like two dresses at the same time and she only needed one. Halle Berry: The top is like Halloween and the bottom is like the water in Hawaii. She needs to get her hair under control. But sometimes I need to get my hair under control, so you can’t blame her that it’s like that. Trust me. Ryan Gosling: He’s my favorite boy. I like the ruffles on his shirt a lot. Most boys don’t have that. The boys have the easy way in life. They just pick a tuxedo and go to the party. Ginnifer Goodwin: No dress should ever have a turtleneck. Alicia Vikander: Her hair and makeup look like maybe she didn’t know she was going to the Oscars. But the rest of her knew. Obvi. Blanca Blanco: It looks like she is wearing a duct tape dress. Someone help her now.    All Posts Fashion gender nonconforming LGBTQ Oscars Oscars 2017 parenting My Son Reviews Looks From 2017 Oscars  C.J. had a dentist appointment this week, which he was not thrilled about.  The only way to get him to cooperate?  Bribes.  Candy.  Toys.  Lunch.  Shots of tequila.  Whatever it takes.  What really works best is the promise of a toy from the treasure chest at the receptionist’s desk.  Don’t ask me why.  It’s usually full of cheap trinkets that break by the time we pull into our driveway.  Not this time. This time, the treasure chest was loaded with fancy parachuting army men and jeweled tiaras.  Obviously our dentist has begun to compete with the fancy Orange County pediatric dentist down the street who has a Wii in the lobby, the latest G-rated flicks playing on flat screens over the exam chairs and Bose headphones with pre-programmed iPods for the tweens.  Guess which toy C.J. selected?  The tiara.  You know him so well. He lit up when he slipped on that crown and all the trauma and drama of getting his teeth cleaned faded from memory.  The receptionist who was booking our next appointment started to laugh at C.J.  It was understandable.  She looked back at her computer and tried to focus.  As her eyes returned to C.J., so did her smile.  “I’m sorry, I just can’t concentrate with him wearing that tiara,” she giggled. “Good thing you don’t live in our house, you’d get nothing done,” I replied with a smile.    All Posts effeminate Gay Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homosexual parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Teeth Cleaning and Tiaras  Another gift from Nana Grab Bags for Easter?  A kite.  Simple enough, right?  Well, according to C.J. it is his “best gift forever.” Good picture, C.J.'s Mom! More impressive than that?  C.J. has found his calling his life.  He is a kite flying wunderkind.  As a kid, I could never get a kite to fly, the string became a knotted mess and I never, ever got liftoff.  C.J. did not get his kite flying skills from me.  Obviously.  At one point the kid was standing still and the kite was reaching high altitudes. Every day since Easter C.J. has flown his Little Mermaid kite.  Today, at the baseball fields C.J. ran back and forth, back and forth, back and forth, with kite overhead.  Two little girls asked each other why a…read the next word with a feeling of disgust…boy was flying an Ariel kite.  Another 4-year-old boy approached C.J. expressly to inform him that he does not like Ariel.  C.J. ignored everybody and flew his kite high.    All Posts Ariel Easter effeminate Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Kite Little Mermaid Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow C.J. Gets High With Ariel  Nana Grab Bags really screwed up this time.  And, C.J. has to remind her at regular intervals so that she doesn’t forget her mistake. Yesterday afternoon she arrived at our house with two Easter baskets overflowing with ridiculousness, one for C.J. and one for his brother.  C.J.’s basket had more chocolate than the city of Hershey, Penn.; colored bubbles that, I’ve been warned, stain; a Little Mermaid kite; toys for summer; and a Ken doll.  How could she. Handsome Ken doll comes casually dressed in jeans, pink plaid shirt and a grey tee. When C.J. caught a glimpse of the familiarly-shaped pink box buried in the basket, he got excited.  His excitement was premature.  He pulled the box out and his smile quickly turned into a hard straight line.  “Nana, what is ‘dis?” he asked with attitude and his head cocked, knowing full well what “it” was. “That’s Ken,” said Nana, exuberant as always. “I don’t like Ken. I like Barbie,” C.J. insisted. Poor Nana Grab Bags.  She tried.  She tried to see if C.J. could like a Ken doll as much as he likes Barbie.  If maybe Ken could be a gateway drug into the dirty world of boy toys, much like Barbie was a gateway drug into the fabulous world of girl toys.  Not that Nana Grab Bags really cares.  Well, C.J. was offended. C.J. continued to look at Ken with confusion and disgust.  I would have the same reaction if someone gave me an auto part, chess set or computer manual.  I encouraged C.J. to be thankful, but he was so flabbergasted by the gift choice that he couldn’t play nice.  Kids are so lucky that they don’t have to pretend.  According to C.J., the gift sucked and he couldn’t help but let Nana know it. It wasn’t just any Ken doll.  It was Shaving Fun Ken.  “Girls can help Ken doll "shave" his facial hair!” -- Mattel To add insult to injury, Nana Grab Bags bought Shaving Fun Ken two additional outfits; a pink tuxedo and an outfit for the beach.  “I thought you would have fun changing his clothes,” she explained.  C.J. said nothing; he just shook his head no.  C.J. loves to dress his Barbies and Disney Princesses, how could he refuse to dress and undress Ken? We all tried to stifle our laughter and smiles.  It really was cute.  C.J.’s attitude is cute on a four-year-old.  If you’re older than four, don’t try this at home, unless you’re with your Nana.  A good Nana will forgive just about anything, especially on Easter.    All Posts Main Site Header Barbie Disney Princess effeminate Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Ken doll Mattel Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Please Don’t Insult My Son By Giving Him a Ken Doll  Last weekend was the huge, annual neighborhood garage sale hosted by the local real estate agent (you know, that lady with the big hair who sends all the note pads and calendars).  Oh, yeah, it was big doings.  Six streets participated and everybody was out early at 7 a.m. ready to sell their wares and stuff their fanny packs full of riches. My kids love garage sales. To say that one man’s trash is another man’s treasure doesn’t do their excitement for garage sales justice.  They always want to buy other people’s crap and I can’t very well tell them that it’s crap with the owner of said crap standing right there in front of us. And, what did C.J. just HAVE to have?  Out of everything spread on old, gross blankets on the dirty, cracking driveways?  This book. For Better or Best: Understand Your Man by Gary Smalley. I tried to steer him towards something a little more age-appropriate.  He wasn’t having it.  I tried to steer him towards any other book.  Nope, not interested. He can’t read.  Obviously.  So, why does he like this book so much?  He tells me that he likes to look at the numbers; and, by numbers he means words.  The book has gone everywhere with C.J.: to bed, to the bathroom, in the car, to Nana Grab Bag’s house, to Target, everywhere. There’s no telling why kids like certain things, especially C.J.  I guess I should look on the bright side, the back cover explains that after reading the book he will “understand not only the way men think, but also how to move a man’s heart.”    All Posts effeminate Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow C.J. Tries Self-Help  Since my last post, I had a bad day, for seven days in a row.  It all started when I realized that I’m expected to work on April 29, the day that I really need to be at home in front of the television watching the wedding of His Royal Hotness Prince William of Wales and Waity Katy Catherine Middleton.  I should have taken it as a sign from the monarchy that this week would suck royally. Last Monday’s post summarizing the results of a survey that I conducted about raising homosexual and/or transgender children got people to think and question.  A few of the results keep popping into my head.  Seven percent of people would rather their child be missing his/her left arm than love someone of the same sex.  Wow.  I keep thinking it, seven out of 100.  Seven armless children. If people had to choose to raise a straight tomboy girl or straight effeminate boy, they chose to raise the girl.  Not one person elected to raise a straight effeminate boy.  I caught myself looking at C.J. several times this week and thinking, “Nobody would choose to raise you.”  I’d lift my chin up and think, “Well I’m honored and proud to raise you.  I’d choose you.”  I want to look into his four-year-old hazel eyes and make him understand that I would choose him, even if nobody else would.  Now, Dr. Ablow didnt approve of Becketts pink toenails, but are C.J.s toe rings okay? Then, along came toemagadden; which, of course, all started when J. Crew ran an ad featuring its president and creative director Jenna Lyons and her five-year-old son Beckett.  His neon pink toenails made a lot of people see red and made me feel blue. In his Fox News blog, self-proclaimed super-smarty-pants Dr. Keith Ablow made it clear that he doesn’t approve of Ms. Lyons and all of us moms who are set on not changing our kids, but celebrating them, loving them and raising them to be exactly who they were created to be.  When it comes to parenting, according to Dr. Smartypants, we’re doing it all wrong.  It’s the gay men and transgendered (and even the lesbians, bless you girls!) who tell me that I’m doing what they wish their parents would have done for them as children.  It’s all the people who grew up “different” that tell me that raising my “different” child the “same” as everybody else just isn’t going to do.  Shame on Dr. Smartypants for making a mother feel small for making her child feel big. Dr. Smartypants As “America’s Psychiatrist” he would serve a greater purpose by making an informed diagnosis and offering helpful treatment.  The social commentary he offered in his Fox blog failed to do that.  It was rude, judgmental and sarcastic; three things a psychiatrist has no business being while on the clock. Be an ass in your free time, please. I found it interesting that, in his blog post, he writes negatively of Facebook.  For shits and giggles I looked him up on the F-B.  The good doc has 3,127 friends!  Goes show that my theory is right, never trust an adult with more than 500 Facebook friends; get a fan page. The final blow of the week?  Queerty.com, the leading website for LGBT news, ceased operating this week.  Queerty.com and David Hauslib have been so good to me and RaisingMyRainbow.com.  They syndicated almost all of my posts, helped me find a larger audience and answered silly question after silly question when I was three mojitos deep at The Abby.  Cheers to David and whatever fabulous adventure he conquers next.  Cheers, Queerty. Thanks for everything. Who wants to syndicate my content now?    All Posts Main Site Header Dr. Keith Albow effeminate Fox Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual j. Crew Jenna Lyons Orange County parenting Pink Toenails Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Week From Hell: Featuring Armless Children, Pink Toenails and The End of Queerty  First and foremost….Thank you! Thank you to all of you readers out there who sent me links to news about the – by now – infamous J. Crew ads of a mother painting her son’s toenails pink.  I love to see images of and know that there are other mothers out there raising sons like mine.  I love it.  Others don’t. My favorite article about the ad is found here on CafeMom.  I’m off to J. Crew to buy C.J. a little something for spring. Don’t ever stop sending me things that you think I should see/read.  It takes a village…. P.S. If Beckett ever wants to playdate, C.J. is totally available.  If he were to get a “Friends and Family” discount at J. Crew all the better.    All Posts CafeMom effeminate Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual j. Crew Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow We’re Off to J. Crew to Make a Purchase  I’m full of questions, mostly unanswered questions.  Always have been, always will be.  My brother came out.  Boom!  Questions.  I found out I was pregnant.  Bam!  Questions.  C.J. started embracing his feminine side.  Pow!  Questions.  Fergie showed up on American Idol with a different face.  You guessed it.  Questions. So, I ask a lot of questions and I’m sure it makes those close to me crazy, though they are so sweet that they’d never say anything to my face.  That’s part of why I started this blog, so that I could bother total strangers with my questions and be more far-reaching with my inquisitive annoyance. Gratuitous survey image goes here. Then, I was introduced to SurveyMonkey and decided to take my question-asking torment to a whole new level.  I compiled a list of questions that I wanted answered.  I created a survey and sent it out to people in a certain demographic: breeders with children under the age of 18 or in the family-planning stage of life.  I also asked them to pass the survey on to people they know who fit the bill. The results were interesting.  Warning: I’m no mathematician, scientist or pollster.  I’m much too right-brained for those professions.  Any-who, I created the survey and use the results that have been automatically generated by SurveyMonkey. This is not a formal survey and any formal complaints can be sent elsewhere. Survey says! If homosexuality could be detected during pregnancy through routine blood work or ultrasound, 71 percent of people would want to know.  What would they do with the knowledge of their child’s sexuality? “I would do as much research as possible in order to become the most understanding parent there ever was.” — 3/31/11 1:19PM “I wouldn’t keep it a secret but I certainly would be selective in who I told.” — 4/1/11 12:28AM “I would make sure I had proper role models and an open dialogue with my child for when this materialized in puberty.” — 4/1/11 7:29AM “I would only use it only as a tool for parenting my child. I would not share the info with anyone except my husband.” — 4/2/11 4:02AM These people think that the survey was a-okay. Especially the one in back with pink arms. If people had to choose to raise a lesbian or gay male, they were divided almost equally.  One person did submit a request for a “Lipstick Lesbian,” so if you know where s/he can officially place that order, please let me know.  If they had to choose to raise a straight tomboy girl or straight effeminate boy, they chose to raise the girl hands down, with not one person choosing to raise a straight effeminate boy.  Most commenters cited that that seemed like the easier option. 86 percent of people would adopt a child knowing that s/he were homosexual and 43 percent would adopt a child knowing that s/he was transgender.  Someone I admire for their honesty wrote: “My wife and I were about to adopt and I would probably prefer not to adopt a homosexual or transgender child.” — 3/31/11 1:19PM This lady didn't take the survey. Instead, she stared as a blank, black computer screen and pretended to type. 43 percent of people would let their son wear a dress if he wanted to, but only at home.  No one wanted their son to wear a dress in public.  93 percent would let their son play with dolls and about half would allow him to do so outside of the house. “I have to admit if my older son, who’s 7, wanted to play with Barbie dolls, I would first try to encourage him to play with trucks. If he preferred Barbies, then I would absolutely let him.” — 3/31/11 1:19PM No one thought that homosexuality was a choice, seven percent would feel sorry for a friend who had a homosexual child and seven percent would rather have a child missing his/her left arm than have a homosexual child.  I hope their straight child is right-handed.    All Posts Main Site Header effeminate Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Child Missing Their Left Arm or Homosexual?  7% Say, Who Needs a Limb?!  Uncle Uncle and I needed some Onion Blossom Pringles, so off we went to the grocery store with C.J. in tow.  We needed chips and guess what C.J. needed?  This!  Just a little subtle Easter basket, nothing too over the top.     All Posts effeminate Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Is This Basket Too Much?  Two little boys at a park in South Orange County.  One is five years old, the other four.  Both, with Strawberry Shortcake in one hand, facing each other so that Ms. Shortcake can have a word with her clone.  Both boys have a hand on the right hip, head cocked to the right, with total attitude.  They are deep in play.  I can’t tell what is transpiring between the two Strawberry Shortcakes, but I can tell that my son is in heaven, even though he is acting like a diva.  I am pretty much inside the pearly gates too, because it is the first time ever that my son has played with little boy just like him. I started this blog for three reasons, one of them being to connect with other primary caregivers who are raising a child like mine.  John’s Mom found my blog and e-mailed me.  And e-mailed me.  And e-mailed me.  I’m not exactly prompt in replying to e-mails; I get a lot of them.  I’m so thankful that John’s Mom was persistent, because, she was right; our lives are so much the same.    John wants the “girl toy” with his Happy Meal at McDonald’s.  He loves the Disney Princesses.  He likes to slip into his Mary Janes after a long day at preschool.  John walked up to us at the park hiding a stuffed animal kitty behind his back.  He saw C.J.’s plush Rapunzel doll in full view and the Kitty quickly came out to play. John is marvelous.  He’s a bespectacled, long-lashed tender soul with a mop of long sandy brown hair.  He wears the same shoes, but in different colors.  He’s a magnet for wonder. John’s Mom is equally as cool, bless her soul. She rocks worn cowboy boots and a cardigan with eclectic brooches that John plays with when he feels a little shy.  She serves organic strawberries and is dead set, like me, on not changing her little boy, just loving him. John and C.J. both have older brothers who are all boy and Dads who, though they may struggle from time to time, love them completely and now know every Disney Princess and her movie of origin. John and C.J. play Stawberry Shortcake and Rapunzel, nibble on Disney Princess fruit snacks and go on a discovery hike to look for roly-polys and lady bugs.  They are oblivious to looks from other park goers. It’s a first for them, the first time that either boy has played with someone so much like himself. Can you believe that the Rapunzel dress at the Disney Store is $50?! I don't even spend that much money on a dress for myself! -- John's Mom John’s Mom and I sit on a bench and talk.  What are your feelings about your son wearing something girly outside of the house?  What do you do when your son wants to have a Pinkalicious themed birthday party?  Why is the Rapunzel dress at the Disney Store $50!? We both struggle to protect our sons, while also trying to set them free.  We have to get creative when it comes to birthday parties, judgmental friends and dressing our effeminate sons. She has tips for me, because she is a year farther along in the adventures in raising an effeminate, fabulous son.  She also has warnings.  C.J. may start to get embarrassed and withdrawn in the coming year because he may start to realize that he is different.  Some of his innocence may fly away as the reality of life creeps in.   We lose track of time.  Our two hours together felt like 10 minutes.  We gather our things and our sons in a hurried panic.  As they drove away, John says to his mom, “I can’t believe C.J. likes princesses!  That is so great that he won’t even make fun of me!”   That’s right John.  You’re safe with us.    All Posts Main Site Header Disney Disney Princess effeminate Fabulous Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes Happy Meal homosexual McDonald's Orange County parenting Queerty Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow rapunzel C.J. + John = Perfect Playdate  Because we are so used to C.J. being, well, C.J, sometimes when he does something or plays with something typically considered “boy” it catches us off guard.  C.J. isn’t always our slightly effeminate, possibly gay, totally fabulous son; sometimes he’s very much our slightly masculine, possibly heterosexual, totally rambunctious son. Besides identifying as boy and wearing boy clothes, he:  Loves to be scared and doesn’t shy away from a good scary movie Occasionally enjoys a good country song laden with twang Has an intense need for speed while riding his scooter Searches out fences and trees to scale Lists potty-talk as his preferred language Laughs uncontrollably at pratfalls (someone getting hit in the balls is at the top of the list, obviously) Sees a bug and wants to play with it, trap it and, often times, smash it Has horrible aim in the bathroom Doesn’t mind a snotty, messy face Loves to wrestle with his dad and brother Has never let a good fart go unnoticed or unclaimed     All Posts effeminate Gay Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Our Slightly Masculine, Possibly Heterosexual, Totally Rambunctious Son  “Why did you start your blog?” That’s the blog-related question I’m asked most often. “Because I wanted to give people a glimpse into our lives raising a differently gendered child to show that we aren’t weird, we’re just different. I wanted to slowly educate people in a non-threatening way.” That’s my standard answer. I’ve been thinking for a while now that I’m not blogging as much, so I’m not educating people as much as I could and should be. That bums me out. So, I very quietly started a public Instagram account (@RaisingMyRainbow) to see if it felt like a good (read: easy) way to share a little more of our journey. Then I read this in an email from Gender Spectrum regarding the Trump administration’s recension of important support for transgender students. “If you want to take action regarding the administration’s decision, make a commitment today to do what you can to increase understandings of gender in your world. Your story may be just what someone needs to hear. Your story can make a difference.” I’m following Gender Spectrum’s orders and asking all of you to follow me on Instagram, share my posts and tag people when the mood strikes. I envision still writing a few blog posts a month. Sharing news and things I find important on Facebook and Twitter. And, chronicling our daily lives and thoughts on Instagram. Let’s see how that plan works. I’m open to comments, thoughts, suggestions, etc. Do you want me to share the same exact thing across all three social media platforms? Do you want me to compile Instagram posts and share them on my blog, Facebook and Twitter routinely? I just don’t want you to get sick of me. Leave a comment below or shoot me an email (raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com) with your thoughts. xoxo, Lori    All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Spectrum Instagram LGBTQ parenting Raising My Rainbow on Instagram  Oh yeah, before my recent haircut, I would have fit right in with the ladies in this family. Minus the dress. “You look like one of those Mormon Duggars,” Uncle Uncle said to me as we lunched recently and I contemplated cutting my overgrown hair. “They’re not Mormon,” I replied, taking a bite of chips and guac. “That’s not the point,” he said.  (Oh no he didn’t!) “How come Kim Kardashian and Angelina Jolie can have long hair, but I can’t?” I asked defensively, thinking that my argument was solid. “Shack up with Brad Pitt and we’ll talk,” Uncle Uncle said to me, his favorite sister, with a smile. A couple months later Uncle Uncle came for a visit and we were watching C.J. play with his Strawberry Shortcake dolls.  I could tell that Uncle Uncle was deep in thought.  I waited for it.  I knew some incredible insight was coming. Picture this hairstyle, with red hair, on a four-year-old effeminate boy. That's C.J.! “C.J. has the same haircut as Liza Minnelli,” he said thoughtfully.  “You know that old lady short do.” He was right and I couldn’t help but laugh. Haircuts are a tricky thing for C.J.  He usually wants his hair long like Rapunzel.  Which is just fine, except that the minute his bangs are long enough to get in his eyes he gets annoyed and goes crazy, often times wagging full-on war, swatting them out of the way and, then, crumbling to the ground in defeat.  He decided that he wants shorter bangs and longer hair on the sides and the back.  I have a hard time being okay with that because he would look too much like the mascot for Dutch Boy Paint.  C.J. often describes this haircut when asked how he wants his hair. It’s an age-old problem; wanting beautiful long locks but not being patient enough for the growing out and styling process. Whoopsie! C.J.'s Mom cuts bangs like this. A few days ago, I decided to cut C.J.’s bangs myself because they were falling in his eyes and ruining his life.  The good news?  He no longer looked like Liza Minnelli.  The bad news?  He looked more like Jim Carrey’s character from Dumb and Dumber.  Just when I thought it couldn’t get any worse, it did.  I was over the long waits and service at our usual Cool Cuts 4 Kids, so I decided to take C.J. and pop into Hair Masters, which is right next to our grocery store. We walked in.  C.J. was wearing a green hoodie, jeans and white sneakers.  He was carrying a plush Rapunzel doll, but otherwise looked all boy.  The stylist took us to her station.  “What kind of cut does the pretty girl want,” she asked, running her long acrylics through C.J.’s super-thick red hair.  I ignored her because I simply thought that she misspoke.  She referred to C.J. as a girl again and I corrected her.  “He’s a boy,” I said with a look and tone that questioned her intelligence. “Oh, I’m sorry, I saw the doll and….,” she trailed off.  Sadly enough, I’m getting used to people apologizing and trailing off. C.J.'s favorite part of getting is hair cut? The styling cape. Duh. Two more times she referred to my son as a girl.  Was she crazy?  Did she just not care?  Was I overreacting?  I corrected her each time she made the mistake. She proceeded to give him the worst haircut of his life.  She sprayed water in his face, scared him with the blow dryer and told him that he needed to concentrate on what he was doing.  Now, last time you got a haircut, did you have to concentrate on what you were doing?  I sure didn’t. “If you tell HIM what you are going to do before you do it, this might go a little smoother,” I said to her as she trimmed his bangs and dropped hair directly into his open eye. This lady was clueless and I was near tears or verbal assault. Finally, the great hair massacre of 2011 was over.  “What flavor lollipop does she want?” she asked.  C.J. looked at me.  Apparently we were both fighting back tears. He choose grape and we left. “I’m sorry that lady wasn’t very nice,” I said to C.J. “Yeah, she was so in-propriate,” he said as he enjoyed his candy and skipped along. There are no words.... The next day I called to complain to the manager, who really couldn’t be bothered with the details of a customer’s bad experience.  She offered to fix the botched job.  We went back to the salon, but I’m not sure it was worth it.  Apparently they are not, as their name would indicate, masters of hair. If you’ve been following our adventures, you know how important hair is to C.J.  Right now, the poor little guy doesn’t like what he sees in the mirror.  That makes me sad, because I always want my boys to like what they see in the mirror.  I’m trying to help him by getting creative with the styling of his hair.  We do the old Justin Beiber swoosh to one side and the Robert Pattinson bed-head disheveled look.  We’ve even, at the suggestion and direction of C.J.’s Brother, tried the Nate Berkus.  Those make him feel better.  We’ll ride out this phase together until he once again likes what he sees in the mirror… and, in the meantime, we’ll look for a new stylist.    All Posts Main Site Header Cool Cuts 4 Kids effeminate Fabulous Gay Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes Hair Masters homosexual Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow The Great Hair Massacre of 2011  If you read my blog post from March 14 (Happy Meal with a Side of Gender Issues To Go Please), you know that when raising a fabulously effeminate son even ordering a Happy Meal can be a production.  That’s because McDonald’s typically doesn’t give out gender-neutral toys anymore, instead you must choose a “boy toy” or a “girl toy.” The solution is simple, have cashiers leave gender out of the order-taking process and ask customers if they would like, for example, the Barbie or the Hot Wheels car. Check out this photo that Raising My Rainbow Reader Greg sent to me today.  It was taken at a McDonald’s in West Hollywood.  You’d think in WeHo of all places they’d be a little more aware and considerate of those who are gender nonconforming.  If you can’t be free to show your true colors in Boys’ Town, where do you go?       All Posts Barbie effeminate Fabulous Gay Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes Happy Meal homosexual McDonald's parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Ronald McDonald Needs to Have a Word With His Peeps  I love to get e-mails sharing stories like this…. My youngest son said that this was for girls. I used to say “uh-huh.”  But, you have inspired me to tell him that, “it’s not JUST for girls…If you wanted this, I’d get it for you.”  My son then said, “Well, it’s not for me.” — T Raising My Rainbow has inspired some little change in one family?  Well then, it has served its purpose.  Let’s make this world a better place for our kids, no matter their orientation.    All Posts effeminate Fabulous Gay Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow One Family’s Change  C.J. doesn’t want a Tonka Garage Truck, he wants a My Little Pony. C.J. doesn’t want a Hot Wheels Battle Force 5 Fused car, he wants a Barbie: A Fairy Secret doll. C.J. doesn’t want a Young Justice action figure, he wants a Littlest Pet Shop pet. What C.J. wants totally confuses McDonald’s. January 21: We walk into McDonald’s and order a Happy Meal.  “For a boy, right?,” the cashier asks looking at C.J. “It’s for a boy, but we would like the girl toy,” I explain, as I have to on most trips to C.J.’s favorite dining establishment. C.J. always looks back and forth between me and the cashier with eyes that tell me that he is fearful his request for a girl toy might be rejected because he is – obviously — a boy.  He isn’t concerned with what the cashier thinks; he just wants – like every four year old – to get what he wants.  He breathes a sigh of relief when his wish is granted. An anxiety attack and tears are averted.  You can't blame C.J. I mean, which toy would you rather have? February 22: We walk into McDonald’s and order a Happy Meal. “Would you like a boy toy or girl toy?” the manager asks before seeing C.J. and saying “Oh, sorry, you want a boy toy.” “No, no, we want the girl toy,” I said, pretending to be really pleasant. “Oh, I just thought that since he’s a….” “Yes, but we’ll take the girl toy,” I say loudly and firmly with a saccharin smile that says “give me the damn girl toy and don’t cause a scene.” (Awkward moment goes here.) Again, the choice is so obvious. March 7: We drive up to McDonald’s and order a Happy Meal. “For a boy or a girl?” the bored voice mumbles out of the metal drive-through box. “It’s for a girl,” C.J.’s Dad says, upset that gender identity issues are now being served with his Big Mac. As wonderful as C.J.’s Dad is about raising a slightly effeminate, fabulous son, it does bother him to call him a girl. I told him that he didn’t have to refer to C.J. as a girl, he could have selected his words differently and suddenly we are Mr. and Mrs. Bickerson.  C.J.’s Dad’s face turns red and he grips the steering wheel a little tighter.  I start to giggle. We aren’t the only family dealing with such McProblems. The very next day, my college friend C posted this on her Facebook: “I don’t like that when ordering a Happy Meal I’m asked if it is for a boy or a girl, when the question should actually be “do you want a car or a Barbie?” Amen sister!  A handful of other moms agreed on C’s Facebook page.  C’s little guy isn’t slightly effeminate, like C.J., but she explains that “other than the obvious obnoxiousness of the gender stereotyping going on, sometimes the “opposite gender” toy is the better choice for my son. He knows what a stuffed bear is, not so much a Bakugan whosie-whatsit. “ C.J.’s Brother noticed that there is a Happy Meal website with fun games and activities.  We pull up the site and start to register to play.  McDonald’s, again, wants to know if we are a boy or a girl.  I can’t explain to the computer that we have one boy who likes to play with boy toys and one boy who likes to play with girl toys.  We log off.  If McDonald’s keeps this up, I’ll have to make lunch more often.  Tears.    All Posts Main Site Header Barbie effeminate Fabulous Gay gay child Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes Happy Meal homosexual Littlest Pet Shop McDonald's Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Happy Meal With a Side of Gender Issues To Go Please  When I was setting ground rules for this blog (yes, hello, there are ground rules), I decided to leave religion out of it.  It’s getting increasingly hard to follow that rule because of my own struggles and because about 50 percent of the e-mails that I receive mention religion and/or God in some way.  I’ve started to write a blog post about religion and may publish it in the coming weeks. Last week the following e-mail thudded into my inbox.  What’s your reaction to it?  What are your thoughts on homosexuality and religion? “CJ’ s mom If your child wanted to kill your pets would you be so happy about it? Or if your child got really happy trying to jump off a ladder or wanted to drive your car would you allow him to do this? For God sakes you so called mothers what the hell have you been brought up on. This is your child yet you have given up on them without even trying. This is so wrong. If you do not believe in the Bible then I guess there’s nothing to talk about but if you do, believe for your child because this is not what God intended for him. There a way too many scriptures that say this is wrong but it will be you who will have to stand before God about this. If the Bible said that being gay was okay, then I would be okay with it too but woman this is just wrong and I truly believe one day you will regret this mistake.” “Monica” is the charming woman who sent me this message.  When I tried to reply…..wouldn’t you know she gave a fake e-mail address?   What do you think of people who hide behind anonymity?    All Posts Main Site Header effeminate Fabulous Gay Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes homosexual homosexuality and religion Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow If the Bible Said That Being Gay was Okay….  With the lull in between C.J.’s baseball and gymnastics careers, I thought it was going to be a slow week.  Then, Raising My Rainbow was on the front page of The Orange County Register’s Sunday edition.  Read the article here.  Bonus feature: C.J.’s Dad speaks for the first time about raising C.J.  As part of the spread, Walker scored an exclusive interview with Cheryl Kilodavis, author of My Princess Boy.  Check it out. The feedback from readers has been overwhelming: negative, positive, judgmental, encouraging  and, most of all, tear-jerking.  We heard from a lot of Orange County families who feel like they have to hide with their effeminate, gay and/or non-gender conforming son; when really we all want to walk in the sun.  My family is not alone, I always knew that. Shout out here to Cindy Yamanaka and Theresa Walker, The Orange County Register Reporter Theresa Walker and photographer Cindy Yamanaka were super supportive of the blog, kind to our family and treated us with great care.  To them I am thankful. Any-who, since the story hit newsstands, I have made good on my promise not to peek at the comments left by readers on the publication’s website.  My BFF (a.k.a. Auntie KK) says that Register readers are proving to be even more close-minded and judgmental than she expected; which is a shock to me, because after 13 years as my partner in crime, she is pretty good at, both, expecting the worst of people and then not giving two shits about what they think. Our journey sure is unique, thanks for joining us. C.J.'s Infamous Lego Mini-Fig    Oh, Child! C.J.’s Mom needs a manicure!          All Posts Cindy Yamanaka effeminate Fabulous Gay Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual My Princess Boy Orange County Orange County Register parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Theresa Walker C.J. Peeks Out From Behind the Orange Curtain  He was a little boy born with baseball blood.  His maternal great-grandfather was drafted by the Chicago White Sox in the 1930s.  His maternal grandfather traveled Latin America playing in the Pan American Games.  His paternal grandfather coached youth who went on to play in the pros.  His father turned down a possible baseball scholarship to play football in college.  Even I was a decent shortstop in my days playing fast-pitch softball. But, Uncle Uncle struck out at t-ball.  And, C.J. is more like Uncle Uncle than anybody else in our family. As the 80’s approached, Nana Grab Bags would sit in the stands every weekend with her Farrah Fawcett hair, Gloria Vanderbilt jeans and cry behind her enormous sunglasses as her baby boy struck out at t-ball while every other player easily managed to hit the stationary ball off of the stationary tee adjusted perfectly within their strike zone. Uncle Uncle’s favorite day of baseball season? Picture day! Uncle Uncle didn’t seem to mind.  He loved to pick daisies in the outfield and tap dance for the bees.  He was completely oblivious to the game being played.  When the innings dragged on he kept himself busy by reenacting both fantastic acts of Annie and singing all of the songs from memory.  Flourishes were added here and there for dramatic effect. Every once in a while he would grab himself and hop around yelling — so loud that spectators at neighboring fields could hear him –“Mom-meeeeee, I have to go peeeee-peeeee.” Nana would wipe her tears with great dignity and lovingly escort him to the bathroom. C.J. has been watching his big brother play t-ball and, now, baseball for most of his life.  He loves to be down at the fields, play with the other siblings and get Icees from the snack bar. “When I gonna’ play baseball?,” he asked a few weeks ago. His request was perfectly timed, as the local recreation department was just about to start a t-ball league for three and four year olds and the uniform stores near by were all having a clearance sale “I love my baseball costume,” C.J. said as he twirled in front of the mirror in his team t-shirt, workout pants and baseball hat.  “It’s called a uniform,” I said as I smiled. At the field they assembled the kids.  C.J.’s hat fell off.  He put it back on and looked at me. “Does my hat still look otay, Mama?,” he shouted across the field. “Yes, baby.” “Do I still look like Strawberry Shortcake?” “Yes, baby.” The other moms looked at me. C.J. “takin’ a knee” before the big game. “Spread your legs, get down and get ‘baseball ready’,” his coach instructed. Apparently C.J.’s legs don’t spread.  His knees were stuck together.  With them together, he bent over with his little rump sticking out.  His knees, together, went from one side, to the other, to totally in the way as he tried to lower his hand-me-down glove to the ground.  A grounder rolled passed him. “Oh, my!” he exclaimed. “Oh, dear!” he breathed as he ran after the ball. C.J. playing t-ball looked as natural as Charlie Sheen giving a heartfelt sermon at the local mega-church. C.J. gets my congratulations and praise for sticking with it, but at the end of the six week season he decided that he didn’t want to sign up for t-ball again.  That’s fine, we’ll give it a go again later. Next week he starts gymnastics.    All Posts Fabulous Gay Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Strawberry Shortcake Take Me Out To The Ballgame  This week I had the pleasure of chatting it up with the boys at Feast of Fun. What is Feast of Fun?   A daily podcast talk show hosted by Fausto Fernós and Marc Felion featuring celebrity guests and friends of the LGBT community. With more than 12 million downloads to date, Feast of Fun has the distinction of having the largest audience for a LGBT-themed podcast in the world. It’s one of the most popular daily audio programs of its kind for any audience.  Here’s a brief description of what we talked about on the show: “Pink boys, princess boys, rainbow kids and the little guy who wanted to dress up as Daphne from Scooby Doo: there is an explosion of moms coming forward to say it’s OK to let your kids play with the toys they want or even make believe and dress up like a fairy princess. These moms don’t care if their kids are gay, transgendered or just going through a phase, they just want them to grow up in a loving accepting society. So they are blogging about it, and want your support. Today we’re talking to C.J.’s mom who writes the blog, Raising my Rainbow where she anonymously shares her story about raising her 4 year old son C.J. who love princesses, Barbie dolls, Alice in Wonderland and pretending he’s celebrity home style cook Paula Deen. Listen as C.J.’s mom shares with us the messages she’s gotten from thousands of people from all around the world for being a mom who supports her kids to be whoever they want to be.” Listen to the podcast here: http://www.feastoffun.com/podcast/2011/02/24/fof-1334-i-think-my-4-year-old-son-is-gay-02-24-11/ Thanks to Fausto, Marc, Feast of Fun and their listeners for the love and support. Who else can I thank this week? Readers from Brazil, Costa Rica, France, Germany, Norway and Pakistan who have hopped on the rainbow to follow our adventures.    All Posts effeminate Fabulous Feast of Fun Gay Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow C.J.’s Mom and Feast of Fun  C.J. has received an e-mail from Prince Charming.  Yes, THE Prince Charming.  They had been going back and forth (with me, C.J.’s Mom, playing the part of loyal typist and secretary) since just before our big birthday trip to Disneyland. For C.J.’s birthday, Prince Charming sent him this autographed picture…  C.J. saw it pop up on the computer screen as I did. “Who dat fo’!” he yelled, as if I wasn’t sitting with my ear six inches from his perfect little mouth. “It’s for you.  Prince Charming sent it via e-mail from his castle,” I answered, my voice overflowing with splendor and awe. “Give it to me!” he said as he reached across me in a mad attempt to rip it from the screen. I printed it out on a piece of photo paper and C.J. twirled with it, held it up high, twirled again and hugged it close to his chest.  Then it was nap time.  And, he took Prince Charming.  Then it was dinner time.  And, he took Prince Charming.  Then it was time to jump on the trampoline.  And, he took Prince Charming.  Then it was bath time.  And, we fought over taking Prince Charming in the tub as I tried to explain why photos and water don’t mix. Then, it was bedtime.  And, he took Prince Charming. Two weeks later and he still loves his autographed Prince Charming photo (even though the neighbor boys weren’t as impressed with it as he was). It’s one of his most prized possessions and it was a very thoughtful gesture from our new friend Mitch.  C.J. and I are thankful for all of the people who follow our adventures, especially the nice ones. * * * This week Raising My Rainbow welcomed readers from Spain!  Hola!  Thank you to dosmanzanas.com!  Raising My Rainbow has now made it to Canada, the U.K., Australia, New Zealand and Spain.    All Posts Disney Disney Princess Disneyland dosmanzanas.com effeminate Fabulous Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Prince Charming Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Prince Charming E-mailed My Son  On Wednesday, on the “fourth hour” of the Today show, hosts Kathie Lee Gifford and Hoda Kotb discussed Dr. Phil’s opinion that boys should not play with girl toys.  While Kathie Lee and Hoda disagreed with Dr. Phil, not all of their viewers did.  Their poll question of the day was: “Is it okay for boys to play with Barbies?” 63.1% said yes (955 voters) 29.6% said no (448 voters) 7.3% were undecided (111 voters) Now, I’m no mathematician, but I don’t like those numbers. These two broads can come over anytime to play Barbies with C.J. Check out these quotes from people who feel that boys should not be allowed to play with Barbies.  They bug me. “Baby dolls, absolutely. Barbie dolls? Redirect to something that doesn’t scream drag queen.” – Baba “If by playing you mean ripping his sister’s barbies to shreds with tools he stole from dad’s workshed, sure. Redirection is in order for this situation. Get out the rescue hero guys or the lincoln logs for him to build barbie a summer home.” – Nate “Definitely NOT!!!!!!! that’s why (there are) so many FREAKS in the world now…boys shouldn’t play with any Female dolls…ok nothing wrong with GI Joe cause they don’t have hair 1st of all and they are skinny lil men. Barbie (has) female parts and have hair and make up.” – Monique “Boys should play with action figures and girls should play with dolls.”  – Derrell “There is too much ‘feminism of America’ and I admire my husband for his masculinity…boys should be ‘taught’ masculinity!” – Jan Here are comments from people – who are fabulous like me – and think that boys should be allowed to play with Barbies. “For goodness sake let children be children. If they play with Barbie or GI Joe does it really matter?” – Karen “If you try to suppress your child’s interests @ a young age, you may be doing harm for them in the future. Absolutely! Gender is a social construct and there is no reason to limit our children’s expressions and creativity.” – Jenn “People who say no are just being homophobic.” – Rob “i was a jock all thru school. i do all the remodeling work on my house, go to the gym , never played with barbies or dresses, i’m gay.” –Rob Bob “The idea that toys are gender specific is outdated and offensive. Instead of teaching compliance we should be focusing on acceptance.” – Beth “I found it interesting that so many replies to this question were wallowing in veiled fear of homosexuality. I teach nursery school, and find that your statement is correct. Most children don’t have a problem until someone else slaps a label of “wrong” on what they’re doing. In general, play is a major vehicle for a child to discover his world, and they have a heck of a good time exploring it all. A boy can learn so many positive things by playing with a doll. Gentleness, protectiveness, aspects of caregiving and responsibility for a “little” person. These things don’t make him Gay, they make him a potentially good member of an adult society…” – E.S.    All Posts Barbie Dr. Phil effeminate Fabulous Gay Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Kathie Lee Kathie Lee and Hoda Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow The Today Show Today Only 63% of People Think it’s Okay for Boys to Play with Barbies  I’ve been an unhealthy mix of sad, disappointed, pissed, worried and ready to take action since learning that the Trump administration would rescind the federal guidance support for transgender student’s use of restrooms and other single sex spaces. Being differently gendered, C.J. has been bullied at school – with the worst incident occurring in the bathroom. He was in first grade when he peed his pants in class and sat in his own urine for hours after boys in the bathroom tried to forcefully see if he had a penis or vagina. Because his gender expression is feminine leaning, the kids at school had been debating which genitals he possessed. The boys in the bathroom wanted to settle the debate once and for all. Read more about the incident here: When The Boys’ Room Isn’t Safe For A Boy There are specific actions that you can take to support trans students. Here’s what I shared on my Facebook page after seeing it on a friend’s page: Prepare) Know the facts about the withdrawal of federal guidance on transgender students. These FAQs are the best I’ve found. 0) Call your elected officials. This is Step 0 because you should already be doing this. 1) Write letters to the editor. Write your local paper(s) about why you support trans rights. Reference whatever recent news story catches your eye; right now this would be Title IX 2) Contact your local school board(s). Ask if they have trans-supportive policies. If they do, thank them. If they don’t, ask how those policies could be implemented. 2a) Work to implement those policies in your community. 3) Donate to orgs like the National Center for Transgender Equality, the ACLU, the Transgender Law Center, or other orgs that are Doing The Work. 4) Make sure your friends are doing all this, too. Finally and most importantly: If a transgender or non-binary identified student experiences discrimination at school, there is legal assistance to help. Please contact any of these legal organizations for assistance: National Center for Lesbian Rights (NCLR) – nclrights.org Transgender Law Center – transgenderlawcenter.org GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD) – glad.org American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) – aclu.org Lambda Legal – lambdalegal.org        All Posts #ProtectTransKids bullying Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Orange County parenting Title IX transgender Our Bathroom Bullying Story, Actions to Take and FAQs to Know  Dr. Phil is on my shit list.  Here’s why.  His advice on parenting a boy who likes to play with girl toys and wear girl clothes?  Don’t let him. Get your best Texas twang ready, because here are his words exactly. “Direct your son in an unconfusing way. Don’t buy him Barbie dolls or girl’s clothes. You don’t want to do things that seem to support the confusion at this stage of the game. Take the girl things away, and buy him boy toys. Most importantly, support him in what he’s doing, but not in the girl things.” – Dr. Phil McGraw.  I want to scream and cry and become defensive and find comfort in chocolate.     You, C.J., need to stop playing with girl toys. 1.) “Direct your son in an unconfusing way.  Don’t buy him Barbie dolls or girl’s clothes.”  Um, hi, if I took away all of C.J.’s girl toys he would be nothing but confused.  There would be no “unconfusing” way to do it or to never buy him girl toys again.  Children are not simpletons. C.J. would be confused as to why mommy and daddy won’t let him play with the things that he loves to play with most.  He would be confused as to why he can’t play with girl toys, but girls can play with boy toys.  He would be confused as to why his big brother gets to select his own toys, but he does not. To me it’s like saying, what you like is not okay.  And, that is not okay. C.J. would have every right to be confused.  I imagine that it would be like telling me that I should and could only enjoy hobbies and things that I hate.  I could go to the supercross, but not the spa.  Go to the auto parts stores, but not the mall.  Study martial arts, but not celebrity gossip.  Drink beer, but not martinis. Furthermore, besides feelings of confusion, C.J. might experience feelings of rejection, abuse of power, extreme jealousy and inadequacy.  I’m not willing to subject my son, either one, ever, to those feelings.     According to Dr. Phil, C.J. can no longer play with these.     2.) “You don’t want to do things that seem to support the confusion at this stage of the game. Take the girl things away, and buy him boy toys.” Right.  Take all of the girl toys away.  I don’t even want to imagine what that would do to my child.  Really, Dr. Phil?  Take away all of C.J.’s girl toys?  That would leave him with his brother’s old Thomas the Tank Engine trains, a few crappy toys that accompanied Happy Meals, a Nerf gun, a plastic cowboy and Indian set that Pa and Nana Grab Bags brought back from a trip to Dallas and a few other odds and ends that he has no passion for.  He plays with none of these toys, but I keep them in his room, mixed in with his girl toys in case the mood to play with boy toys ever strikes.  It hasn’t. And, does the Woody doll from Toy Story count?  Because it is a boy, but it is also a doll.  What about his set of pink Legos?  Legos are, for the most part, marketed to boys, but pink is a girl’s color and it came with a girl mini-fig and a tiny hairbrush for her and her horse to share (gross).   What about his Scooby Doo character set?  Should I toss Daphne and Velma and leave Scooby, Shaggy and Fred? Dr. Phil really needs to be more specific. Also, I’d like to know if he gives the same advice to parents with little girls who want to play with cars, baseballs and super hero action figures.  Would he tell a tomboy’s parents that their daughter might grow up to be too strong, too tough, too independent, too masculine, too….not normal, not okay? Imaginative play is encouraged in our house.  No matter the character, no matter the gender.     According to Dr. Phil, C.J. is allowed to play with these.     3.) “Most importantly, support him in what he’s doing, but not in the girl things.” Nice.  Only support half of your child; you can support all of them if they fall in the range of “normal.”  I should support C.J.’s brother because he is into video games, baseball, skateboarding and fart jokes.  But, I shouldn’t support C.J. completely because he likes dolls, playing beauty parlor, doing girly sticker books and walking around in my high heels.  Support him, but only half way.  Let him know that only certain parts of him are okay.  To me this is the worst suggestion of the bunch.  We all deserve to be celebrated all the way. Dr. Phil goes on to say that “this is not a precursor to your son being gay, he’ll know that in time…this is not an indication of his sexual orientation.” Another important Dr. Phil quote? “Homosexuality is not a learned behavior. A sexual orientation is inherited; you are wired that way.” So what does it matter if C.J. plays with girls toys now if his sexual orientation already lay dormant inside of him waiting to blossom in adolescence?  What does it matter what a kid plays with?  That’s the answer I want.  I want a reason.  Dr. Phil doesn’t want C.J. to play with girl toys, but why?  Why not?  He doesn’t say — and that is dangerous.  I’m just supposed to take his word and follow his commandments because he said so?  I’m not that kind of girl. And, I don’t understand why he tells guests “Jessica and Thomas” about their cross-dressing toddler twins: “Get over it! This isn’t a sex role identification thing, a gender issue or a gay issue.” How come toddlers can cross-dress and their parents need to get over it, but C.J. can’t play with girl toys and I need to take them all away? Dr. Phil, in his latest large article on parenting, advises parents: –               Don’t fight individuality –               Do embrace a child’s nuances  –               Don’t label the child –               Don’t ignore an issue that matters to your child –               Do empower –               Don’t pick wrong battles –               Do consider child’s desires Thanks Dr. Phil, I’m doing these things, but I guess it doesn’t matter when your boy plays with dolls.    All Posts Main Site Header Barbie Dr. Phil effeminate Gay Gay pride Gender homosexual legos Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Scooby Doo Thomas the Tank Engine Toy Story Woody Dr. Phil Wants to Make My Son Cry  Super interesting read and makes this mama sad.  I’m off to ponder this over mojitos by the beach….  What Does Dr. Phil Think Parents Should Do When Their Sons Play With Barbies? Take Away The Barbies.   Read more: http://www.queerty.com/what-does-dr-phil-think-parents-should-do-when-their-sons-play-with-barbies-take-away-the-barbies-20110205/#ixzz1D87gRLtr     C.J. would cry massive tears and be traumatized for life if I took away his Barbies.     All Posts Barbie Dr. Phil effeminate Gay Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Orange County parenting Queerty raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow Yeah, But Dr. Phil’s Boys Like to Marry Barbies, Not Play With Them…  Hey peeps, this week I was approached by a devoted Raising My Rainbow and Queerty reader who has a few questions for us. Cameron is a 19-year-old who runs the Gay-Straight Alliance at his high school in Ontario, Canada.  He’s looking for advice on coming out and/or supporting those who are coming out.  I’m just as eager as Cameron is to read your answers and advice.  You can reply via posting a comment at the end of this blog post or e-mail me discreetly at RaisingMyRainbow@gmail.com and I’ll pass your advice on to Cameron.  See Cameron’s e-mail below.  Thanks for your help!    I'm coming out, I want the world to know.... “Calling all mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, friends and of course gays! Coming out is something that calls on not only one person, but their entire support group. This can include parents, friends and teachers. So, what advice would you give to the support group – the people supporting someone who has made the decision to come out and live their life as who they are. I am a high school student in Ontario, Canada and I run a GSA at my school. We recently discussed support groups at one of our meetings, and I am very interested in the opinions of others in regards to this. Sincerely, Cameron”    All Posts Canada Gay Gay pride Gay-Straight Alliance homosexual Orange County parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow High School Student Needs Advice on Coming Out  When Uncle Uncle comes to visit he always arrives bearing gifts; beautifully wrapped gifts, because – after all — merchandising and appearance are everything. One of the favorites, by far, is the book The Boy Who Cried Fabulous written by Leslea Newman and illustrated by Peter Ferguson. C.J. is...The Boy Who Cried Fabulous. Yes, I have read My Princess Boy by Cheryl Kilodavis.  I applaud her. But, C.J. identifies more with The Boy Who Cried Fabulous.  I think it has something to do with redheads sticking together; hence his affinity for Ariel (The Little Mermaid) and Strawberry Shortcake.  I digress. The Boy Who Cried Fabulous is, in a word, fabulous. It’s about Roger… “Roger is ‘different’ much to his parents’ dismay, until he teaches them just how fabulous being different can be!” Leslea Newman explains why she wrote the book…. “I have a very good friend named Roger, whose favorite word is “fabulous.” One day Roger told me a friend of his gave him a nickname: the boy who cried fabulous. Roger said, “Wouldn’t that be a great title for a children’s book?” I agreed and went to work!” Excerpt – The Boy Who Cried Fabulous “When Roger started out for school, His mother set a simple rule. She said, ‘Now Roger, you go straight Straight to class and don’t be late.’ Roger tried hard to obey, He knew that he should not delay. He shouldn’t wander or explore But then he came upon a store, Its windows full of lovely clothes So colorful that Roger froze, Then clapped his hands in fits of glee And shouted out in ecstasy: “What a fabulous coat, is it silk or wool? What a fabulous bell, can I give it a pull? What a fabulous door, does it open wide? What a fabulous store, can I come inside?” © 2003 Lesléa Newman People often as me what C.J. looks like. He pretty much looks like a younger version of this. Handsome, no?  Other books by Leslea Newman that you might want to give a read…. Mommy, Mama, and Me and Daddy, Papa, and Me are the first board books ever published for kids who live in two-mom and two-dad families. A Fire Engine for Ruthie about a little girl who wants to play with fire engines and trains and motorcycles. Too Far Away to Touch about a child and her special uncle who is lots of fun, even when living with AIDS means he’s not feeling his best. Felicia’s Favorite Story about a little girl who loves to hear the story of her adoption told by her two mothers. Heather Has Two Mommies about a little girl with two mommies who learns that families come in all shapes and sizes. Donovan’s Big Day about a little boy on the day that his two moms are getting married. What other books should I be reading to C.J.?  I want your suggestions!  Funny thing is, I'm wearing the same exact hat as the mom in this picture...right now....as I type. Weird!     All Posts effeminate Fabulous Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Leslea Newman My Princess Boy parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow The Boy Who Cried Fabulous The Boy Who Cried Fabulous  It was like watching somebody come alive, watching a flower bloom, watching a rainbow cross the sky. It was the day C.J. discovered Barbie. Back story: Uncle Uncle and I had a bad Barbie addiction as children. It was tough to shake, especially since our mother was and is a total enabler.  In March 2009, Nana Grab Bags bought me – a grown woman — Mattel’s 50th Anniversary Bathing Suit Barbie.  She was a modernized version of the original 1959 doll with a two-piece, black and white bikini trimmed with her signature color pink, pink hoop earrings, ponytail and a cell phone.      The girl who changed C.J.’s life forever.   I kept her in her box in my closet for months.  One fall day I was cleaning out my closet and sat boxed Barbie on my bed. “WHAT DAT?!” I nearly fell off my stepstool at C.J.’s shriek. “It’s Barbie.” “I want to open she!” He held the box as he jumped up and down, up and down, up and down. I hesitated.  You don’t open a boxed Barbie if you can at all help it. But his face.  His sweet excited face could convince me to do worse things.  We opened her. Cue the choir of angels. I figured he would play with her for a day or two and lose interest; like he did with most toys.  She’s been a constant in his life for more than a year.  Oh, he wasn’t dabbling, he was hardcore from the start. It was the beginning of our adventures in raising a slightly effeminate, possibly gay, totally fabulous son.      Hair and makeup by C.J. Call for your appointment today!   C.J.’s Brother was a devoted Thomas the Tank Engine fan from his third birthday to his fourth birthday exactly.  12 months; no more, no less. C.J. and Barbie are celebrating their 16 month anniversary. “And, how’s C.J.?  Is he still playing with dolls?  Oh, he is?  When do you think this phase is going to end?  What do you think it means?” ask Grandma and Grandpa Colorado when we catch up by phone. Since C.J. hooked up with Barbie I’ve been mostly answer-less. I have to admit, it’s easier for me to connect with my younger son over Barbie than it was to connect with my older son over Thomas the Tank Engine and the Best Traxxas RC Trucks.  Me and Babs go way back.  Playing Barbies with C.J. is much like playing Barbies with Uncle Uncle.  Uncle Uncle would backcomb her hair to high hell and I’d be responsible for brushing her out; same goes for when C.J. manages to tangle her to rat’s nest proportions.  And, both Uncle Uncle and C.J. have scolded me countless times for my outfit choices and styling techniques.  It’s history repeating itself.      Uncle Uncle taught C.J. to fashion a waterproof cocktail dress out of a Ziploc bag. Perfect for nights in the hot tub or a dip in the rooftop pool at The London after dark.   Since C.J. fell off the “boy toy” wagon we’ve endured questioning stares, dirty looks, disgusted headshakes, knowing nods and smiles of encouragement. C.J. has been his happiest since he met Barbie, we haven’t always been.  But, as a mother, I wouldn’t have it any other way.    All Posts Main Site Header Barbie Disney Princess effeminate Gay Gay pride Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual Littlest Pet Shop Mattel Orange County raising a gay child Raising gay child Squinkies Strawberry Shortcake Thomas the Tank Engine Zoobles Falling Off the Boy Toy Wagon Into Girl Toy Heaven  Tonight on “What Would You Do?” (ABC at 9 p.m.) the show sets up a scenario at a toy store and sends in actors to see what people will say when a father struggles with the thought of buying a doll for his son. Will anyone support the father’s decision not to buy the doll or will they see it as a harmless phase and suggest he give in? I love the kindergarten teacher….watch the clip here.    All Posts ABC effeminate Gay Gender Gender Stereotypes homosexual parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child What Would You Do A Boy Wants a Doll: Father Grows Uncomfortable When Son Challenges Gender Stereotypes  It was Pa’s 63rdbirthday, which always necessitates a big hoopla because Pa is one of those people who L-O-V-E-S his birthday.  I’m the opposite by the way. Any-who, Nana Grab Bags is happy to accommodate and fulfill Pa’s fantasies of an over-the-top birthday because she is obsessed with holidays, fanfare and all things celebratory. A 63rdbirthday and what does Pa get?  Dinner at Red Robin, a carousel ride, a homemade cake, Paul Frank themed party supplies and goody bags for everyone. Yes, goody bags. And, in those goody bags, among other things?  Toe rings.  Yes, ladies and gentlemen, toe rings for Pa’s 63rdbirthday.  Flower-shaped, bedazzled toe rings. Why must Nana Grab Bags do this to me?  Why must she buy trinkets under the ruse that I might like them when really she knows C.J. will go bananas for them?  Because boy did he. Next thing you know, Nana Grab Bags is calling the family to gather round for a rousing rendition of Happy Birthday to Pa and C.J. hollers…. “Jus’ a mimute, I’s gotta put my toe rings on.” The music stops.  Macho, Mexican-American, born-again-Christian Pa takes a deep breath and steadies himself on the counter.  We all wait in awkward silence for C.J. to get his toe rings on.  And, then, we break into song.     C.J. hearts his new toe rings and is secretly praying for sandal weather.       All Posts effeminate Gay Gay pride homosexual Orange County parenting Paul Frank raising a gay child Raising gay child Red Robin Toe Rings Toe Rings for Pa’s 63rd Birthday  My last blog post made me – again – consider this question….. If homosexuality could be detected during pregnancy through routine blood work or standard ultrasound, what percentage of people would want to know?  What percentage of people would abort? I’d want to know because lord knows I’m a planner.  I was the first to want to go to Organic Gender in Riverview, Florida to find C.J.s gender.  I generally don’t like surprises, unless they are lavish gifts being showered on me with no strings attached (I also don’t like strings attached).  Other than that, I always want to know what’s coming my way.  I need a plan of attack.  Constantly. That’s what’s so hard about raising C.J. — because I want to know right now if he is gay.  And, I can’t know that now and I most likely have more than a decade of not knowing.  It will be years before I have answers to some of my most important questions I have about him.  Do I need to preregister him at the performing arts high school?  Do I need to look into homeschooling or online coursework to protect him from bullies? Should he graduate early from high school to head to the Paul Mitchell Schools or audition for The Groundlings?  Should I be putting my preschooler on the waitlist at Parsons The New School for Design? I’m neurotic.  I know. That’s one of the many, many fabulous things about C.J., he’s teaching me to be more patient than I’m generally programmed to be. And, so is this blog.  Thanks to the more than 1,000 people who have read my words so far.  RaisingMyRainbow is on Facebook now (look at C.J.’s Mom getting all social media on you).  Find me.  Like me.  Muah.    All Posts Main Site Header If Homosexuality Could be Detected During Pregnancy Would You Want to Know?  C.J.’s Brother is a Lego-building wunderkind.  While he loves to build and engineer, C.J. hoards the mini-figs (a.k.a. the Lego people, for those of you not up on your Lego lingo).  I find C.J.’s hoarded mini-figs everywhere: in his pockets, in his backpack, under his pillow, in the bath and – one time – up his nose. C.J. can’t just leave the mini-figs as is.  He HAS to switch them up.  The Martina Navratilova-inspired tennis player gets the hula girl head complete with a plumeria in the ear.  The skateboarder boy gets the disco dancer’s huge black afro.  The Kung Fu master gets the queen’s crown and braids.  But….my all-time favorite…..is this one….  C.J. created this Lego Mini-Fig. It's his all-time fav. What does it make you think of? Created by C.J., it is his favorite too.  He refers to it as both a “pretty” he and a she.  In private, C.J.’s Dad refers to it as the “Village Person” Lego and I refer to it as “Gay Pride” Lego. In case you were wondering, that’s a policeman’s head with Princess Leia body.  Check out the cleavage! Or are those pecs? I hope you all have a great weekend.  Tons of thanks and cyber hugs go out to the hundreds of people who have checked out my blog since my first real posting on Monday.  Especially the people who took the time to comment, you have no idea how much your words mean to me.  Know that. I hesitated to start this blog because I feared the haters.  Luckily they haven’t found me yet! My motto for 2011?  What needs to be done?  Why not me?  Why not now? My next post is on Monday, check back, I think it’s a good one.    All Posts Gay Gay pride Lego legos Martina Navratilova mini-figs raising a gay child Did C.J. Create the First-Ever Gay Pride Lego?  C.J. – The most enchanting child you will ever meet with an insane knack for art and color, interior design and dance.  His passions include Barbie, Disney Princesses, Strawberry Shortcake and women’s hair and shoes.  Paul Deen holds a special place in his heart. C.J.’s Mom (Me, the blogger) – A feisty, sassy girl-woman trying to have it all and usually feeling like she is failing miserably while all those around her are none-the-wiser.  She works part-time as a business consultant, full-time as a mother and overtime as a walking panic attack. C.J.’s Dad – A police officer and recovering bully with his 15-year chip for bully sobriety.  He’s an Irishman with a heart of gold hidden underneath his tough-guy façade and ever-present scowl. C.J.’s Brother – Seven going on 30, he’s wise, kind and the best big brother a younger sibling could ask for.  Embarrassed by nothing, except when C.J. acts like a girl. Uncle Uncle – A creature from a sitcom who is bigger than life and loved by all.  One of the most important people involved in the raising of C.J. because of his homosexuality.  If it takes a village to raise a child, Uncle Uncle is the court jester, mayor, therapist, stylist and official storyteller. Nana Grab Bags – The maternal grandmother who was created by God to spoil grandchildren.  She’s allergic to harsh words and unhappiness and carries an oversized Target purse filled with candy, toys, hugs and zany theories. Pa – The maternal grandfather who is a devout born-again Christian and macho Mexican-American.  Enough said. Grandma and Grandpa Colorado – The paternal grandparents who are thousands of miles away.  A hunting, drinking, fishing, old-fashioned duo that are waiting for the day when C.J. grows out of “this phase.”    All Posts Cast of Characters: And Characters They Are….  In some ways, C.J.’s recent birthday party was like your average 10-year-old’s birthday party. The birthday boy sat at the head of a long table eating something made mostly of sugar. Presents were stuffed around him. The crowded room was a loud mixture of music and happiness. Then four drag queens took the stage and performed Peggy Lee’s hit “I’m A Woman” while my son cheered and threw dollar bills at them.  Walking to drag brunch. Hand-in-hand with his dad — as always. “What do you want to do for your birthday?” I asked C.J. weeks before he entered the realm of double digits. “I want to see my first drag show,” he said with a smile, squeal and fluttering hands. I’d been to a drag brunch before at VLVT Lounge in Orange County. I emailed them to see if children were allowed to attend. Turns out, they were thrilled to host C.J.’s birthday party. Finding a place to have C.J.’s drag birthday party was easy. Finding guests to attend was not. Not every fourth grader’s parents feel comfortable dropping their child off at a gay club on a Saturday for a party. I get it. The night before drag brunch we had a cake for C.J. at home. He made a wish and blew out the candles. “Do you want to know what I wished for?” He always wants to tell everybody what he wished for. He does not at all believe that keeps the wish from coming true. “I wished that RuPaul would be at my drag brunch birthday party!” The next morning he put on his LED sneakers, jeggings, striped moto jacket, choker and cat ear headband. Then he sat and carefully applied makeup. His favorite eye shadow shades are Warning, Seize and Goldmine by Urban Decay. Our small but fierce celebratory group met in front of the club. The final guest list included C.J., Matt, Uncle Michael, Uncle Michael’s friend Martin and two of my best friend’s daughters. We walked the red carpet and took pictures. C.J. felt like a star. He thought that everybody at VLVT that day was there for his birthday (even though they were there for their own birthdays, bachelorette parties, etc.)   VLVT gave C.J. a special necklace to indicate that he was celebrating something big. A decade of life! The show got underway and much to C.J.’s delight one of the queens — Venus D’Lite — had appeared on RuPaul’s Drag Race, season 3. If you are in any way remotely affiliated with RuPaul’s Drag Race, C.J. thinks you are the coolest and holds you in very high esteem. The other queens were Trinna Modele, Dani Kay and Big Dee.   VLVT spoiled C.J. with the best view in the house. C.J. opened his presents. Uncle Michael happened to give him 50, crisp one dollar bills in a nice stack to use to tip the performers. To a 10-year-old, few things are better than throwing money at people.   “I’ve always wanted a huge stack of money like this,” C.J. said. Then he had me take several pictures as he fanned himself with it. The queens put on an amazing show. Bless their glittery hearts for trying to keep it as kid-friendly as possible.  C.J. was pulled on stage twice to perform with the queens. Here he is with his favorite queen of the day, Miss Dani Kay.  Meeting and greeting with the queens after the show. Who knows what he is telling them.   C.J. at Starbucks after brunch, checking out pictures on Uncle Michael’s phone and wearing the wig his best friends gave him. “Going to drag brunch is exhausting, but we should go back. We should go every weekend,” C.J. said as I was tucking him in that night.  “Can you make reservations?” I closed his door and thought about how far we have come in accepting and supporting his gender nonconformity. When he was turning three, we were uneasy and anxious when he wanted to have a Disney Princess-themed party and invite his whole class. Seven years later Matt and I both got emotional and beamed with pride when he was given the chance to dance onstage with drag queens. We wouldn’t change our child or this parenting journey for anything. Happy birthday, C.J. Thanks for letting us grow with you.      All Posts Birthday Drag Brunch gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Orange County parenting VLVT Lounge My Son’s 10th Birthday Was A Drag     All Posts RaisingMyRainbow.com is a blog about the adventures in raising a slightly effeminate, possibly gay, totally fabulous son.  It’s time to add another book to your library! One of a Kind Like Me/Único Como Yo is a bilingual children’s book based on the true story of a child named Danny who wanted to be a princess in the school parade. He and his mom embark on a venture to find a purple princess dress. The book’s author is Laurin Mayeno, is the founder of Out Proud Families and the proud mixed-race mother of a multiracial gay son who was gender nonconforming as a child. When my son Danny told me he wanted to be a princess for Halloween, I was worried that he would be teased and I would be judged. I suggested another costume, but Danny knew what he wanted. I decided to support him and we created a beautiful purple princess dress. He wore it happily in the school parade and kept it for years. Although I didn’t know it then, I later came to realize that having a gender-creative child was a beautiful gift. Being Danny’s mom, I have learned to appreciate children who don’t follow expectations based on gender. I also have seen how pressure to fit gender expectations can make life hard for any child. We can help all children feel safe and accepted by allowing them to explore a full range of activities without restricting or criticizing what they do based on gender. We can also make a difference by encouraging children to be respectful and kind to their peers, and by letting them know that teasing and bullying hurt. If you have a child who doesn’t follow society’s gender norms, rest assured that you are not alone. It is perfectly healthy to explore different ways of expressing gender. If you have concerns and fears, as I did, learning about gender diversity and connecting with other families like yours can give you confidence and peace of mind. Enter to win a copy of One of a Kind Like Me/Único Como Yo by leaving a comment below. A winner will be announced here, on Facebook and on Twitter on Friday (January 20, 2017). Click here to order a copy of the book. * * * I posted the following video of C.J. to social media and forgot to share it here. It’s just another glimpse into what life is like raising a fabulous, spirited son. Me: We’re going to dine alfresco and act like a nice, normal family. C.J.: You can be normal. I’m going to be Beyonce. Matt: *films while exchanging smiles with passersby*  # # #    All Posts Beyonce gender creative gender nonconforming Giveaway LGBTQ Orange County parenting BOOK GIVEAWAY: One Of A Kind Like Me/ Único Como Yo  Six years. It’s been six years since I launched this blog. My gender nonconforming son was three at the time. He was newly potty trained, loved the Disney Princesses and had a limited vocabulary. Now, he’s a nine-year-old fourth grader who loves drag queens, Andy Warhol and who talks nonstop. If I listed all of the lessons I’ve learned during the last six years, it might take me another six years. The biggest lesson I’ve learned? To stop worrying. I used to worry so much. As much as you all read my worry, you’ll never know how much worry truly engulfed my heart and mind. I worried about what other people would think about C.J.’s gender expression and identity. I worried about what they would say to and about him. How they would react to him. How he would be treated at school. What his future would look like. What we would do if he identified as trans. What we would do if he came out as gay. I worried about my obsessive worrying. Sometimes I’d catch myself not worrying and then start worrying about what I was forgetting to worry about. Then, our gender therapist helped me manage the worry. Whenever I shared a worry with her, she would say “And then what would happen?” My answer was always “We’d deal with it.” For example…. Me: I’m worried the kids at school will make fun of C.J. for wearing girl clothes. Therapist: And, then what would happen? Me: We’d deal with it. More often than not it took many more “And, then what would happens” for me to get to the “We’d deal with it.” But, I always got there. Always. (If your answer isn’t “We’ll deal with it.” If your answer has something to do with being embarrassed by your child, loving them less, resenting them or wanting them to change, you need help. I don’t say it in a dismissive way. I say it earnestly. Please, seek help. From a supportive friend, a therapist, PFLAG, an online community, books, blogs, anywhere safe and trusted.) So, if I’d always deal with a worry when/if it became a reality, then why was I wasting my time and stressing myself out worrying about it prematurely? Worry doesn’t prevent things from happening; it just prevents you from enjoying the good things that are actually happening. When I stopped worrying, I started enjoying the colorfulness of my unique son. That’s when life got happy. The beginning of this parenting journey and this blog was fueled by worry, wine and chocolate. My busiest blogging hours were in the dark of night – with the kids in bed, Matt at work and worry as my bedfellow. That’s not my life anymore. Thank God. I don’t spend my days defensively traveling ahead of C.J. making sure the path is clear, safe and prepared for his rainbow arrival. I’m done with that exhausting rigamaro. I no longer live life ahead of my son; I live life with my son. I’m no longer hyper vigilant. I’m informative and matter-of-fact. I’m not angry about the way things are, I’m eager to change them for the better. I’m sure of the things I need to know and do to address the challenges that come our way because of C.J. I’m sure of the resources available to us and how to learn what I don’t know. I’m sure of my son, myself and – most importantly — my parenting. Surety erases worry. Confidence is calming. My son feels my surety and it’s good for him. In turn, it’s given him confidence and calm. He’s sure of who he is, his style, the village he belongs to and the family that has his back no matter what. He knows that the answer to “what happens if….” is always “we’ll deal with it.” While I try to live in a place that is worry-free, it’s a place that’s certainly worry-adjacent. I can cross the city line to worry-ville in no time. I just try not to unless it’s truly justified. I don’t worry. I work. So that when something happens and I have to react, I’m prepared. I want to be prepared, not paralyzed with worry and fear. Now, I make the worry propel me into action. I’m worried about 2017. I’m worried about our future under the reign of the president-elect. But, I’m focused on spending more time acting and less time worrying. Action is productive, worrying is not. The more I let go of worry, the harder it got to write. I don’t see blog posts as we live our lives, like I did six years ago. I don’t see his gender creativity as much. I don’t see his purse entering the room first. I don’t see his runway walk being practiced down the grocery store aisles. I don’t see his French braid and lip-gloss when I drop him off at school. I don’t see those things, I just see him.    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Orange County parenting worry I No Longer Live Life Ahead Of My Son; I Live Life With My Son  Hieeeeeeeeeeeee. I got so many things for Christmas. And I love them all. But here are my favorites. LED Sneakers: They light up and you can change the colors. You can also make the lights flash or change colors on their own. The other day we went out shopping and four people stopped me to tell me they liked my shoes. Today we went to the library and two people told me they liked my shoes. That’s six people.  Rainbow light: I turn it on at nighttime and use it as a nightlight. When I look at the rainbow when I’m falling asleep I feel like a fabulous leprechaun. Origami: I’m a master origami-er now. My mom bought me a beginner’s origami book and I’m almost done with it. My favorite thing to make is a swan. I didn’t even ask for origami stuff but my mom knew I would like it. I had no idea I was so good at origami-ing.  Makeup: My Uncle Michael got me a for-real makeup case with makeup in it. He got me makeup brushes that feel so good on my face. I tickle myself with them. The makeup he got me is totally makeup for professionals. I’m not a professional yet, but I will be soon. I even got pink eyelashes and mascara. My mom says she wants to borrow the lipstick and eye shadow he got me because it’s from a brand called Urban Decay. Dress: My new drag dress is very colorful. It’s short in the front and long in the back and glittery. When I put on the dress, I feel like I’m a drag queen being a unicorn.  LEGO Friends Amusement Park: It came with a rollercoaster, a Ferris wheel and a spin-y thing. It had 1,124 pieces and I built the whole thing on Christmas Day all by myself. My mom says it was supposed to take me all of Christmas Break to build it and keep me busy. I was very proud of myself when I finished it. Flex Seal: I’ve been wanting Flex Seal so bad so that I can make anything I want out of rubber. I’m going to make a rubber cup and a rubber bowl.  Bath Stuff: I love to take baths. I got soap in the shape of little roses. And bath bombs. And bath confetti. When I take a bath I read People magazine and let the conditioner sit in my hair for a little while so that I don’t have tons of knots. Byeeeeeeeee, C.J.      All Posts Christmas Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Orange County parenting What I Got for Christmas, By CJ  Spoiler Alert: I allude to some things about Santa that you may not want your child to read. It’s a different kind of Christmas in our house this year. It’s C.J.’s first Christmas knowing that thing about Santa that only bigger kids and grown ups know. This year, C.J. handed over his Christmas wish list only after confirming multiple times that “knowing gets you just as many presents as believing.” I guess he would start un-knowing and re-believing if my answer had been no instead of yes. Let’s just dive right into his list, because the item at the top managed to shock even the world’s reigning drag queen – so there’s really no subtle way for me to introduce it. Hip pads to wear while in drag: He’s heard all about them on RuPaul’s Drag Race and has caught glimpses of queens making them and tending to them on the show; now he wants his own set. Or pair. Or however you address them to mean one for each hip. Oh, and butt. When he told this to Bob The Drag Queen, Bob was surprised and gave a fabulous, hearty chuckle. Bob said that a queen usually makes her hip pads based on the size and age of the woman she is going to be. What do you do if your queen is a nine-year-old boy who wants to be a 20-something man being a 30-something woman?  Drag Makeup and Drag Clothes: Per family tradition, we visited an amusement park yesterday. I’ve had my kids’ Santa pictures taken there since they were born. I asked C.J. if he wanted to sit on Santa’s lap and get his picture taken given this year’s enlightenment. He said yes. We stood in line and he walked maturely up to Santa and took a seat. C.J.: I don’t believe in you anymore, but I wanted to tell you that I want drag makeup and drag clothes for Christmas. You know, just in case. Santa: That sounds great! Uncle Michael is in charge of checking drag makeup off the list. Now I guess it’s up to me to find drag clothes in youth size 8/10. These crazy-ass shoes: I’ve ordered them from China and they are lost in transit and the seller won’t return my emails. So, if you all could say a prayer or do a missing-LED-sneaker-rave-footwear dance, that would be awesome. Of everything on the list so far, I thought this would be the easiest gift to get. I was wrong. Photo creds: Amazon Olympic regulation trampoline: Apparently the 12-foot trampoline we have in our backyard is too small for C.J.’s Olympic dreams. He now wants a 10ft by 17ft behemoth that is hand-woven and weighs 573.2 pounds. The price tag is $5,000 and I didn’t see it in any Black Friday ads. Why can’t my kid be normal and want a Hatchimal like all the other kids? Flex Seal: Me: What on earth are you going to do with liquid rubber? C.J.: Make a boat and a cup. Photo creds: Flex Seal Jeggings with rips and holes in them: This has become an annual request due to growth. C.J.: I need new ones because when they get too small for you, girls’ pants really crush a guy’s nuts. Crocheted mermaid tail: He saw this somewhere and wanted me to crochet it for him. I’ve taken one one-hour crocheting class at Jo-Ann’s, so my skill level isn’t exactly capable of mythical creatures. I was so flattered by his confidence in me, that I bought him one from Zulily. Photo creds: Zulily Rainbow light for his room: If you ever need to find C.J.’s room in the dark, it will be the one with the bright rainbow beaming out of it. Of course. Photo creds: Amazon Lego Amusement Park: 1124 pieces. And I will step on every damn one of them. Photo creds: Amazon Luckily, C.J. is a pretty thankful and easily excitable person. He’s going to be very pleased with what’s under the tree this year. Happy holidays to you all! If the holidays aren’t happy for you, please know that I’m thinking about you.  Remember, you are not alone 🌈 If you need support, reach out to The Trevor Project 24/7 at: 866.488.7386. Find more ways to connect with a safe, online community at: www.thetrevorproject.org       All Posts Bob the Drag Queen Christmas Drag Drag Queen Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Hatchimal LGBTQ Orange County parenting Santa All My Son Wants For Christmas…  The day after Halloween, Matt posted a short essay to Huffington Post about Bob The Drag Queen surprising C.J. and trick-or-treating with him. Following is the not-as-short, unabridged version. I think Matt is the best father ever, but I’m a little partial. Xoxo, Lori This year when I asked my son what he wanted to be for Halloween his answer surprised me. Too be perfectly honest, most of the things that come out of my 9-year-old’s mouth surprise me. So why would this answer be any different? “I’m going to be Bob The Drag Queen! Bob is my hero!” Since C.J. discovered and became obsessed with RuPaul’s Drag Race seven months ago, I’ve made it a point to sit down with him and watch it. It’s not one of my favorite shows, but that doesn’t matter to me. He loves it; and because he loves it, I sit with him and feign interest. I tell him I like the drag queens he likes and I love the dresses he loves. I’m sure he knows that if I had my choice I would be watching a football or baseball game, but he also knows that I’ll sit next to him on the couch, watch episode after episode and get excited when he gets excited. Parenting a child like C.J. has it challenges and struggles but he always knows he is loved and supported by his dad. Both of my boys know they are loved for who they are, exactly the way they are. C.J.’s heroes and interests are vastly different than mine were at his age. When I was 9 years old, my world revolved around football and baseball. I dreamed of playing both sports professionally. My heroes were professional athletes who excelled in their sport and my gender nonconforming son’s hero is a strong, confident, race winning drag queen. I never got to meet my heroes. But, last night, C.J. got to meet his. Once he got over the initial shock, he started crying happy tears. And I did too. Bob The Drag Queen has proven to be a person worth admiring. After reading my wife’s essay about our son dressing up as him for Halloween, Bob rearranged his schedule, worked until the early morning and then flew across the country to trick or treat with my son. I couldn’t thank him enough, even though I tried for most of the night. People have asked me how I can let my son have a drag queen for a hero and dress up as one for Halloween. I point out that my hero when I was 9 years old was Raiders football defensive end Lyle Alzado. Alzado went on to admit he illegally used anabolic steroids throughout his career and ended up dying of brain cancer he said was caused by abusing steroids. My baseball hero was “Charlie Hustle” himself, Pete Rose. The same Pete Rose who has been permanently banned from baseball and the Hall of Fame for illegally placing bets on games while playing and coaching. The men who were my heroes as a kid turned out to be cheaters. Would idolizing a professional athlete be better than idolizing a drag queen? I don’t think so – but it would make a lot of people feel more comfortable. My job is not to make other people feel comfortable; my job is to make my son feel comfortable. And loved, strong, confident and important. Last night I watched Bob do my son’s makeup, fix his wig and hold his hand as they trick or treated together. They smiled and laughed the whole time. They were in a world of their own. I got to follow behind them, soak it all in and hold purses and jackets as needed. It was the best night of my son’s life and it was one of mine, too. Thank you, Bob.    All Posts Bob the Drag Queen fatherhood Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Matt Duron parenting RuPaul's Drag Race I’m The Dad Of A Boy Who Loves Drag Queens  I kept a big secret for two weeks. It was stressful and exhausting. And, so, so worth it. Shortly after I wrote about C.J. dressing up as Bob The Drag Queen for Halloween, Bob contacted me. I just about died. I couldn’t wait to tell C.J. that his hero wanted to talk to me. But, Bob told me not to tell C.J. because – wait for it – he wanted to try to surprise C.J. by showing up to trick or treat with him on Halloween night. The only thing Bob asked was that he get to see the look of surprise on C.J.’s face. We couldn’t tell C.J. I’m a realist. What were the chances that Bob would actually fly into town for Halloween? Especially after a huge appearance and video launch that raged until 3 a.m. the morning of. In New York. No way it would work out, but the offer was beyond sweet. I decided that when meeting C.J. in person fell through, I’d get up the nerve to ask Bob to send C.J. a video wishing him a happy Halloween. What’s the worst that could happen? I’d never have to find out, because the worst didn’t happened. The best happened. Bob worked until the early morning on Halloween, hopped on a flight from NYC to LAX and here’s what happened before and after the surprise of a lifetime. Watching the season eight finale of RuPaul’s Drag Race to get Halloween ready. 1 p.m. = Our family left Orange County for Uncle Michael’s house in West Hollywood. C.J. loves West Hollywood and was very excited to spend Halloween with Uncle Michael and his friends. But, he was a little worried about the quality of trick or treating the neighborhood would offer given that he doesn’t often see kids in WeHo. Matt, Chase and I were all nervous about the surprise and C.J. was in the dark. 2 p.m. = We arrived at Uncle Michael’s in record time. As soon as we were up in Uncle Michael’s apartment, Uncle Michael and Matt said they had to run to the store for something, but really they were meeting with a producer and cameraman from ABC’s Nightline who were there to capture the surprise. 3 p.m. = While Uncle Michael did C.J.’s makeup while I snuck downstairs to be interviewed by Nightline. View their coverage here. 4:20 p.m. = I got a text that Bob had arrived and was walking up the apartment. I was a nervous wreck. C.J. had no idea that he was about to meet his hero. How would he react? 4:30 p.m. = Bob knocked on the door and C.J. answered. C.J. stared and stared and stared. I was afraid he might pass out and fall over backward. Instead he ran to give Bob a hug. Then he started crying happy tears. “That’s the first time I ever cried because I was happy,” he said later. Bob and C.J. exchanged gifts. Bob gave C.J. two t-shirts, a coin purse and a custom made Bob The Drag Queen Doll. They are C.J.’s most prized possessions.  C.J. gave Bob a painting he made that morning and a letter. C.J. thought that we were going to mail the painting and letter to Bob this week, as soon as I found his address (wink, wink).  5 p.m. = C.J. and Bob sat down for some lemonade and pizza. They started gabbing and C.J. got comfortable and attempted to make Bob his new best friend. 5:30 p.m. = Bob touched up C.J.’s makeup and fixed his wig, teaching C.J. every step of the way. C.J. was a quiet and attentive student. He had lots of questions about fake eyelashes and made several attempts to touch Bob’s without Bob noticing.    “If there’s a gay heaven, Bob’s going there for sure,” Uncle Michael said. We all agreed. 5:45 p.m. = We headed downstairs to go trick or treating and stopped in the lobby for pictures. “Shit! My nail broke!” C.J. exclaimed when one of his tiny press-on nails popped off. We all laughed. He’s not usually allowed to say “shit” but I let it slide because it was Halloween and he was with his hero. And, because it made Bob laugh.  “Can I hold your hand?” C.J. asked Bob. “Of course you can, gurl,” Bob said reaching for C.J.’s hand. 6 p.m. = We followed Bob and C.J. as they trick or treated. Bob hadn’t trick or treated in years, but I guess it’s like riding a bike because he knew exactly what to do. The two of them held hands and giggled from door to door. They shared trick or treat bag and purse holding duties. Imagine opening the door to find Bob The Drag Queen and a little Bob The Drag Queen asking for candy. “Oh, you look great,” one old lady told Bob, thinking he was in a Halloween costume. “I like your costumes,” one man said. “Thanks! We are each other!” Bob said. At one point, one lady was so nice to them that she invited them in to her house for more candy. I had to kick into mom mode and remind Bob and C.J. that for safety purposes we don’t go in to strangers houses, especially on Halloween. Bob let C.J. have all the candy they collected, which C.J. thought was really cool. (Except the taffy. Bob loves taffy.)    7 p.m. = It was time to say goodbye to Bob. “Can we have a playdate sometime?” C.J. asked Bob. “Yes, of course,” Bob said without hesitation. “My mom will text you,” C.J. promised. Matt walked Bob to the Uber and told him again how much it meant to us that he rearranged his schedule to make it the most memorable Halloween our son will ever have. “That Uber driver is the luckiest Uber driver ever,” C.J. said as Bob climbed into the car. We walked around the West Hollywood Carnaval for an hour and then drove home. “If Bob’s going to gay heaven, I want to go there, too,” C.J. said when I kissed him goodnight. “Me too,” I said. Both boys were late to school this morning. “I’m just going to tell the office and my teacher that I’m sorry I’m late but I have a fun-hangover from being in West Hollywood all night with drag queens,” C.J. said as we pulled into the parking lot. He still had eyeliner and mascara smudged around his eyes. When he got home from school he asked me to tell him again how everybody kept it a secret that Bob would surprise him for Halloween. He likes to hear about it over and over again. How Bob read about him, worked all night, flew to LA all the way from NYC and surprised him. It’s the stuff dreams are made of, except it’s not a dream. It’s real life, and it happened to my son. I will never be able to thank Bob enough.     All Posts Bob the Drag Queen gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Halloween LGBTQ Orange County parenting All The Details From Our Night With Bob The Drag Queen  We were on our way to C.J.’s parent-teacher conference when he said he had something to tell us before we got to the school. I panicked for a moment. No parent wants a surprise announcement on the way to (or during) a parent-teacher conference. C.J. is in fifth grade and his teacher has students not only attend the parent-teacher conference, but lead it. It’s pretty awesome. “At the end of the conference, I have to tell you three concerns I have and I feel like I should tell you one now instead of surprising you in front of my teacher,” C.J. said. We were turning into the school’s parking lot. At that point I didn’t know if I wanted to be surprised in private or with an audience. C.J. told us his concern before we entered the classroom and shared it again in front of his teacher. His concern concerned all of us. His teacher – ever empowering – suggested that he write a letter about his concern and send it to the appropriate people. She felt that would be more powerful than her or I relaying his message. During winter break he worked on the following letter. The day after he returned to school, he emailed it to his three PE teachers, his teacher and his principal. Dear PE Coaches, I feel you shouldn’t split the boys and girls up in PE class. When you do that, you are assuming that all girls are weaker than boys. That’s not true. I am a boy and there are some girls who are stronger than me and some girls who are weaker than me. Everyone is different. I’m gender nonconforming, so all of my friends are girls. When you split up the classes by boys and girls, it makes me feel alone because all of my girl friends get to be together and I am alone with all the other boys. I bet some other kids feel the same way. PE should fun and about the chance to exercise with your friends. That’s what I want to do. These days, more and more, everyone is friends with everyone more. You should encourage that by having boys and girls work together. This will help with equality. If you need to split the classes up, there are lots of ways to do it. For example, you can divide people up by people who like dogs more and people who like cats more. People who like hamburgers more and people who like pizza more. There are lots of ways to split up one big group into two or three smaller groups. I hope you will discuss this with each other and the principal and consider it. I told my teacher about this and she said that sometimes adults needs to hear things from kids instead of other adults because it makes more of an impact that way. I sure hope so. Thank you, C.J., 5th Grade With this concern, more than ever, I’ve seen C.J.’s advocate spirit blossom. He wanted to advocate for himself, but, even more so, for other kids who may be feeling uncomfortable during PE and afraid to do or say anything about it. The segregation of students based on sex/gender during PE had been bothering him since the start of the school year and he wanted to do something about it. He didn’t want me to take the lead. He wanted to take it. I’m so used to handling things like this for him. I’m used to advocating for and protecting him. I’m used to traveling a few steps ahead and trying to make things as right as possible for him. But, he’s older now. He’s stronger now. I need to get out of his way. I can’t clear his trail, he needs to blaze his own. Because his voice is more powerful than mine.   # # #        All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Orange County parenting PE School I’m A Boy And Some Girls Are Stronger Than Me  Halloween is a night for boys to dress up as their heroes: firefighters, police officers, military personnel, baseball players and superheroes. My nine-year-old son C.J. is no different from most boys. He’ll dress up as his hero for Halloween. His hero is Bob The Drag Queen. Bob The Drag Queen is the winner of the most recent season of RuPaul’s Drag Race. Bob, RuPaul and all the queens are brave, strong heroes for my rainbow son. They’ve taught him to celebrate his uniqueness, cultivate his own style and let criticisms roll off his back. They’ve taught him the importance and power of loving himself. They’ve also taught him a few words and phrases that I’ve told him he can’t use until he’s 18. C.J. has watched Bob The Drag Queen’s “Purse First” music video more times than I can count (his second favorite video to watch is Alaska’s “Your Makeup Is Terrible”). So, naturally, he wanted to emulate Bob’s “Purse First” video look for Halloween. The inspiring look. Bob The Drag Queen in “Purse First.” (Screenshot via YouTube.) “Just so you know, we aren’t going to make your skin or face brown like Bob The Drag Queen’s,” I established right up front. Bob is black and C.J. is half Irish with skin the color of fat free milk and red hair. While I’m totally fine with my son going in drag, I’m completely opposed to him going in blackface. To some people, that makes me weird. “Why would you think I’d do that?” C.J. asked in surprised disgust. Which made me proud of him and disappointed in myself for bringing it up. “I need her dress and purse and hair and makeup and everything.” Now, let’s be clear. I’m not a seamstress, nor a makeup artist. I’ve never styled a wig, nor made a purse. I am a mom from the suburbs whose real talents are propagating succulents and whipping up dinner using random ingredients from the pantry because I’m too lazy to go to the store. Knowing my limitations, C.J. told me to call his Uncle Michael for help. “You can’t order this costume on online, mom! Call my FuGuncle (fun gay uncle)!” I did as I was told because I knew it was the right thing to do. Days later Uncle Michael arrived from West Hollywood with a wig, fake eyelashesm pearls and big ideas. Thank RuPaul for gay brothers. Uncle Michael helped C.J. shop for supplies and make a purse to match the dress they had me order from Amazon. Then, Uncle Michael set up a classroom in our dining room and taught us how to style the wig and do the makeup, because he won’t be in town to help on Halloween. I hope that when the big night finally gets here, my newly learned drag queen skills don’t fail me.    (The one item left on my Halloween to-do list is to buy a petticoat for my son – which is something I never thought I’d say.) C.J. has since perfected his 2016 trick-or-treating technique. He will approach a house. Ring the doorbell and stand to the side. When a person opens the door, he will come into view purse first. I don’t have the heart to tell him that people in our conservative Orange County neighborhood probably won’t get his shtick. “What are you going to be for Halloween?” people and peers have been asking C.J. for weeks. “I don’t know,” he always says nonchalantly. “Why aren’t you telling people what you’re going to be for Halloween?” I asked him in private, worried that he wasn’t telling people because he was afraid of being teased. “I’m not telling people that I’m going to be Bob The Drag Queen for Halloween because I don’t want them to steal my awesome idea,” he replied with the attitude needed to be the world’s best drag queen for a night.      All Posts Alaska Bob the Drag Queen Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Halloween Huffington Post LGBTQ parenting RuPaul's Drag Race Trick-or-Treating Purse First  My brother came out when I was in high school and he was in his early twenties. The right way to come out is different for every person. For my brother it was in a mailed letter. I was sitting at the dining room table doing homework with my boyfriend when my mom came home from work and started opening the mail. She stopped halfway through the stack of envelopes and catalogs. She went up to her room and came back down wearing a sweatsuit and said she was going for a walk. That’s when I knew something was wrong. My mom never went for a walk and I didn’t even know she owned a sweatsuit, let alone the bright white sneakers that served as warning lights on her feet. After she walked out the door, my boyfriend and I stared at each other without speaking . This wasn’t the nightly routine. She returned hours later. She was sweaty and I could tell she had been crying. She told my boyfriend that he needed to go home, but didn’t offer him a ride. Something life changing had happened, or was happening. I braced myself. She said she needed to talk to me and I followed her to my room. She started talking in a tone that was forced calm, measured calm, scary calm. “I got this letter in the mail today,” she started, waving the envelope in the air. I racked my brain trying to think of what the letter could possibly say. I came up with nothing that would warrant my mother putting on a sweatsuit. “This letter is from your brother and you know what it says?” she asked. I shook my head. “Do you know what he is?” she said. The scary calm was fading, now she was just scary. “He’s gay.” “So?” I thought to myself. “Shit.” I thought to myself. “This is going to suck.” I thought to myself. She was still talking, but I couldn’t hear her because I was thinking a lot of things to myself. “This doesn’t mean that you’re gay. You have to promise me that you don’t think you’re gay,” my mom said, finally getting my attention. Wait. What? What did my brother coming out have to do with my sexuality? Hours earlier I had been making out with my boyfriend when we had the house to ourselves. But…I was oddly, strongly attracted to the girl who sat in front of me in English class. Maybe I was gay. No. I couldn’t be gay. Only one of us could be gay and my brother had clearly already called dibs. If him being gay forced my mom into a sweatsuit, I could only imagine what me being gay would force her into. She retreated to her bedroom and closed the door. I heard yelling and crying all night. She didn’t go to work the next day. When I got home from school she told me to get in the car immediately because I had an appointment to see a therapist. “Why?” I asked. With all due respect, it seemed like she was the one who needed a therapist. “Because your brother being gay is going to be a lot for you to deal with.” It was? Once awkwardly sitting in the therapist’s office with my mom crying in the waiting room, the therapist opened our time together with a prayer. PFLAG brochure circa 1992 Then, for an hour, she told me what the bible said about gay people. She taught me how to pray for my brother so that he might see the error in his ways, ask for forgiveness and, once again, lead a godly life. She taught me how to pray for myself so God would know I loved my brother, but didn’t agree with his sin. The therapist told me not to tell anybody that my brother was gay. I sat in silent revolt. The therapist obviously didn’t like my brother, so, therefore, I didn’t like her. I was supposed to meet with her once a week. I refused — leading my mother to firmly believe that she had failed as a parent. The relationships that my mom had with each of us as individuals and together as a sibling unit were never the same. She made my brother tell me himself over the phone that he was gay. Like it was a punishment. I was just happy to hear his voice, until I heard that he was crying. I cried too; not because he was gay, but because he was in pain. I didn’t tell Michael about my therapy session until much later because I knew it would hurt his feelings. And, it did. But, at some point when I was feeling like he thought that his coming out affected only him. I needed him to know that it affected me too. It’s a major plot twist in my life story. Coming out isn’t just about the LGBTQ person. Conversion therapy isn’t just for LGBTQ people. But, I always knew that however bad I had it, my brother had it worse. PFLAG brochure circa 1992 Before her death a year and a half ago, my mom cried to me and told me that she felt like a failure as a mother because of her reaction when my brother came out. She said that, at times, her love for my brother, for her kids, didn’t triumph over her concern about what others would think or say. Weeks before she died she told my brother in words on a card. Going through a box of my mom’s stuff last week, I found a huge envelope stuffed with papers sent to her by her sister the week that my brother came out. The note said, “When you’re ready, maybe some of this info will help.” Handouts, copies and brochures from an organization called PFLAG followed the note. I held them in my hands, thinking of my mother’s sweatsuit, my brother’s tears, the therapist’s prayers and I thought about how different my family’s life could have been if my mom and I had attended a PFLAG meeting instead of a religious therapist. If you are an adult or parent struggling with a loved one coming out, please seek support that doesn’t seek to change your loved one. Click here for some resources.    All Posts Coming Out Gay Gay pride LGBTQ National Coming Out Day parenting PFLAG When My Brother Came Out  All summer, every summer, I can’t wait for school to start again. When the kids are in school, there are less “I’m bored” complaints, less money spent, less full layers of sunscreen to apply/reapply, less sand everywhere and there’s more time for me to work, write, watch Netflix and Google random things. But, then, sure as shit, one week before school starts, I start to panic and worry about what the school year holds for gender-nonconforming C.J. I can clearly remember my worries by grade level – which, as I look back now, are proof that it truly does get better. I’ll take my fourth grade worries over my first grade worries any day. (And, I refuse to think about my middle school worries, so don’t even bring them up. I know it will get worse.) Preschool: Will the kids make fun of C.J. for wearing girl clothes? Will he get teased? Kindergarten: Will the kids make fun of him for drawing himself as a girl and wearing girl socks, jewelry and lip gloss? Will he get teased? First Grade: Will he be comfortable and safe in the boys’ bathroom? Will he get teased? Second grade: I hope his teacher will be more accepting and thoughtful than his last. Will he get teased? Third Grade: He’s been at the same school for four years. I hope he has an accepting and supportive friend in his class. Will he get teased? Fourth Grade: I hope the other kids continue to be cool to him. This year, the hardest part of going back to school was school supply shopping; it’s when I realized how much of his sparkle C.J. tames and edits for school. I know it feels necessary for him, but it feels sad for me. I want to tell him “You do you! Who cares what other people think! Screw them!,” but I don’t because he can read the crowd of his peers better than I can. Just like I won’t dye my hair purple and let all of my tattoos show at work, C.J. doesn’t wear a skirt or carry a purse to school. We hide our authentic selves sometimes, because it seems like the right or easiest thing to do – but we let just enough of our true selves show so that we don’t feel like we’ve surrendered completely. C.J. needed to get spiral notebooks for school. He wanted these: He got these: He needed a binder. He wanted one of these: He got this coral one: He wanted this lunchbox: He got this one (which Chase told us privately is equally as girly and attention-grabbing): He was brave enough to go with these highlighters: As the first day of school got closer, C.J. got more nervous and so did I. The night before, C.J. asked me to help him make sure his French braid was perfect and to paint one of his fingernails blue. If nobody said anything about his nail, he’d paint an additional nail each night until he worked up to two, fully manicured hands. Then, he’d go from blue to a more fabulous color. He’s careful and measured in how much of himself he reveals to people at first. So far so good for fourth grade. He’s worn French braids, ponytails and crimped hair. His nails are polished. The friendship bracelets have started to amass on his wrist. The anxiety has started to subside as we settle into the comfortable routine of the school year. From here until summer, we stand ready for what could happen, but we are more joyful than fearful.    All Posts Back to School bullying Fourth Grade Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Orange County parenting School Back to School Blues…and Pinks  Happy Pub Day to Julie Tarney! Her book My Son Wears Heels came out today. And, I have a copy to give away to one lucky reader. This giveaway is now closed. Congrats to the winner, Shannon Twisler! About the book: In 1992, Julie Tarney’s only child, Harry, told her, “Inside my head I’m a girl.” He was two years old. She had no idea what that meant. She felt disoriented even trying to process it. Wasn’t it her role to encourage and support her child? But surely she had to set some limits to his self-expression—or did she? Would he be bullied? What kind of guidance would he need? Could she do the right thing? And what was the right thing? The internet was no help, because there was no internet. And there were zero books for a mom scrambling to understand a toddler who had definite ideas about his gender, regardless of how Nature had endowed him. Terms such as transgender,gender nonconforming, and gender creative were rare or nonexistent. Lacking a positive role model of her own, and fearful of being judged as a mom who was making her son “too feminine,” Julie embarked on an unexpected parenting path. Despite some stumbles, she learned to rely on her instincts. She listened carefully, kept an open mind, and as long as Harry was happy, she let him lead the way. Julie eventually recognized that Harry knew who he was all along. Her job was simply to love him unconditionally, get out of the way, and let him be his authentic self. In the process she was able to embrace both his uniqueness and her own. As Harry turned 21, she looked back on the early years realizing that today she might have done a few things differently. Sound like something you’d like to read? Leave a comment below and a winner will be randomly selected and announced on Thursday. To order a copy, click here. This giveaway is now closed. Congrats to the winner, Shannon Twisler!    All Posts Giveaway Julie Tarney My Son Wears Heels parenting Giveaway: My Son Wears Heels  As you may recall, in May, Uncle Michael introduced C.J. to RuPaul’s Drag Race while Matt and I were out of town. C.J. was immediately obsessed and we watched season eight as it aired. Since then, we’ve watched seasons four, five and six for free on Amazon thanks to our Prime membership. You guys. That’s 31 hours of drag queens. #summerofqueens I’m having a hell of a time remembering which queens and challenges belong to which season. It’s all a tucked and contoured blur at this point.  Thankfully, season two of RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars started a week after we ran out of free episodes to watch. To C.J., few things in life are better than All Stars. It’s like eating all of his favorite foods at one meal while wearing all of his favorite accessories. It’s all of his favorite queens in the same place at the same time.  Here are C.J.’s thoughts on RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars, Season 2, Episode 1: I’m going to be in RuPaul’s Drag Race Hall of Fame one day. FYI. I was sooooo happy when I saw Detox and Adore, but my total favorite is Alaska. I had my picture taken next to Alaska’s portion of the World War II Memorial in Washington, D.C., because she’s my favorite drag queen. The funniest part of the episode was when someone told Alaska that she looked pretty and she said that she got her look from Party City using a Groupon. I love Party City, too. I love that Adore wants to look like a Monster High Doll. I used to love Monster High Dolls. I guess I still do, kind of. I like Phi Phi’s new cosplay style; it reminds me of Kim Chi’s style. I love Kim Chi. I wonder if Mrs. Chi knows that Kim Chi is a drag queen yet. She probably does by now. When I saw CoCo, I said “Ugggghhhhhh.” I don’t think she will make it far. This is me watching All Stars. I love the Talent Show Extravaganza challenge idea. Especially because my second favorite show is America’s Got Talent. My third favorite show is Cupcake Wars. During the talent show, the judges should have hit a big, red “X” if the act was bad like they do on America’s Got Talent. I kept expecting that. CoCo was the worst in the talent show. No offense. Roxxxy looks better this season. When I asked my mom what “burlesque dancing” was she said it was “old timey sexy dancing.” I loved, loved, loved Alaska’s song. She was the best in the talent show. Courtney Act would have done good in the talent show if she was on All Stars. But she’s not. I think Adore got implants in her lips. We had to skip Tatianna’s act because my Uncle Michael told my mom that it was not appropriate for me to watch. My mom wouldn’t tell me what was so inappropriate about it. So, I asked my uncle and he said it was about sex. I’m never going to understand the new elimination process. I don’t think RuPaul should have changed it. I’m also never going to remember to say, “Now the time has come to lip sync for your legacy.” I’m too used to saying “Now the time has come to lip sync for your life.” Eyebrows are a lot of work. I don’t think Adore was prepared for All Stars. That makes me sad for her. I hope she stays. CoCo deserved to get eliminated, if you ask me. She cannot get her face makeup right. I can’t wait for the next episode! Love, C.J. (Age 9, Fourth grade, Future Drag Queen) We’ve had to update our rules for watching RuPaul’s Drag Race. I’ve been contacted by some parents who use our rules in their family, so see below for the latest version.  Current Rules C.J. Must Follow In Order To Watch RuPaul’s Drag Race  All homework and chores must be done. You must watch it with your mom or dad. We don’t use the words “fishy” or “juicy” to describe people. We don’t use the words “bitch” and “fuck.” (Well, I do, but he’s not allowed yet.) We don’t use the word “She-mail.” Even though RuPaul says “Con-drag-ulations” the real word is “Congratulations” and we use that. (In case it’s ever on a spelling test.) We don’t put glue sticks in our eyebrows until we are a little bit older or have adult supervision for the application and removal. (I’m not looking forward to dealing with this mess.) We don’t attempt to glue our wigs to our heads. (I wouldn’t even know where to begin.) We fast forward through some “Shade Throwing” and “Reading” because that’s not a nice way to talk to people. (I think he will eventually need to learn to throw shade, but not just yet.) As soon as the show is over, it’s time to immediately sashay away to bed.     All Posts Adore Delano Alaska Thunderfuck Alyssa Edwards CoCo Montrese Courtney Act Detox Logo Logo TV Phi Phi O'Hara Roxxxy Andrews RuPaul RuPaul's Drag Race RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars Recapped, By My Son  C.J. and Chase recently made their professional speaking debut in Washington, D.C., at an annual meeting for the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP). AAP invited us and another family to speak to meeting attendees about caring for gender nonconforming and transgender youth. When asked what he specifically wanted pediatricians to keep in mind when working with differently gendered kids, C.J.’s answer was something they don’t teach in medical school: Offer all stickers to all kids, not just boy stickers for boys and girls stickers for girls. AAP President Dr. Benard P. Dreyer was in the audience and published the following letter in response to our panel. I plan on sharing it with our pediatrician and thought you might want to do the same. Letter from the President: Pediatricians should not be transgender children’s first bully By: Benard P. Dreyer, M.D., FAAP, President, American Academy of Pediatrics Dr. Dreyer As I sat at the AAP Districts II and VIII joint meeting in late June listening to two families talk about their experiences with their young transgender children, I felt privileged to witness such love and acceptance — and such normal, happy children who just happened not to fit their “assigned” or birth gender. I was proud to be an AAP member and a pediatrician, just as I was proud in April, when the North Carolina Chapter and national AAP called for repeal of North Carolina’s so-called “bathroom bill,” a law that denies transgender students access to gender-segregated spaces such as restrooms and locker rooms in schools. I’ve learned so much from these children and their families. First, gender dysphoria can start very early. Both children experienced strong opinions about their gender at the age of 4 or 5. Second, there is a continuum in gender dysphoria. Both children had natal male genders. Yet one child changed her name to reflect a female gender and insisted she was a girl, while the other child wanted to be addressed with male pronouns in spite of a preference to dress like a girl and choose play and roles traditionally engaged in by girls. Both families stressed how important it is for home to be a safe and accepting space for the transgender child. When those children walk through the door of their homes at the end of a school day, they should be able to be themselves without any judgment. As one of the fathers passionately said, “I won’t be my child’s first bully!” The pediatrician’s office, and the entire health care setting, should be a safe, accepting place as well. I was sad to receive an email from one of the parents telling of another family’s encounters with the health care system when they bring their 5-year-old transgender daughter in for care for her serious chronic disease. The doctors refuse to treat her as a girl until she is older, and some have even called child protective services claiming the mother is harming her child for allowing her to live as a girl. This is done even though a study by Olson and colleagues, published in Pediatrics in March, showed socially transitioned transgender children who are supported in their gender identity have improved mental health outcomes (Olson KR, Pediatrics. 2016;137:e20153223, http://bit.ly/29jaKIK). There appears to be no harm — and possible benefit — from such parent-supported early social transitions. The parents asked the AAP to get the word out to our members about our support for transgender children and their families. I will paraphrase the statement made by one of the fathers and suggest we pledge that as physicians, especially pediatricians, we not be our patients’ first bully. It’s been 44 years since the release of “Free to Be …You and Me” by Marlo Thomas and Friends. When it was first published, my daughter was 5 years old, and I must have listened to every lyric in the book enough times to memorize them all. My beloved wife, Constance, made sure we had every version of the text (book, record album and video). After all, the point was to empower girls to believe they could do anything, empower boys to think outside the narrow constraints of male stereotypes and empower all children to be unique individuals. It had a major impact on my daughter who quotes it to this day. Now I’m a grandfather with two granddaughters, so I’ve been listening to the lyrics once more. This time, however, I’ve been thinking especially of transgender children and how the words so resonate with their world. I will end this column by speaking directly to transgender children and youth with a quote from the book: I would like “to remind you that you’re the hero of your own life adventure and that you can write your story any way that you dream it can be.” You are free to be whomever you want to be! Copyright © 2016 American Academy of Pediatrics    All Posts AAP American Academy of Pediatrics Appearances Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ parenting transgender Pediatricians should not be transgender children’s first bully  It started about six months ago, right around his ninth birthday, that’s when my son starting seeing gay people. We were driving through West Hollywood on our way to Uncle Michael’s. Stopped at a red light on Santa Monica Boulevard, a very fit, shirtless, short-short-wearing, glistening, not-hard-to-look-at man jogged past our car. “I see a gay guy,” C.J. said and pointed. “What?!” Matt and I said, turning simultaneously to look at C.J. “That guy, right there, running, he’s gay,” C.J. pointed again, nonchalantly. “Okay, well, you don’t know if he’s gay or not…” I said, even though, if I were a betting woman, I’d put money on the runner being gay. “He’s gay. I know it,” C.J. said surely. “It’s not nice to point and say that,” I said. It wasn’t my best use of a teachable moment, but we were almost to Shake Shack and I was hungry. A week or two later, C.J. and I were walking through the mall holding hands (I’m already sad for the day when he stops reaching for me with his painted nails and rubber band bracelets). “That guy is gay,” he said to me and pointed, like he was pointing out a cute top in the window of Forever 21. I stopped him and explained that:  It’s not nice to point at people. It’s not cool to assume something about someone you don’t know. We see gay people – and straight people — all the time but we don’t announce it. Someone else’s sexuality is none of our business.  “I know, but I don’t know that gay person like I know all the other gay people. That’s a new gay person,” C.J. explained. C.J. knows and loves a lot of gay people; it seemed odd to him that he didn’t know the man at the mall or the man running in WeHo. I told my brother that C.J. had pointed out a gay person again. Uncle Michael wasn’t happy with this new habit. “You have to get him to stop doing that,” he said firmly. “My whole life I felt like people were pointing out that I was gay. It’s not cool.” Days later, C.J. and I were watching a choir of high school students sing on America’s Got Talent. “I see a gay person,” C.J. said again, forgetting the lesson I taught him at the mall. “Which one?” I asked. It was a big group. C.J. paused the television, approached it, stood on his tippy toes and pointed to a boy in the middle of the very back row. “You have no idea if he’s gay. You can barely see him,” I argued. “I was watching him. He’s gay, trust me.” “What if someone pointed at you and said you were gay?” “I could work with that,” he replied with a sassy nod of his head. “How do you feel when people point at you and say that you like girl stuff?” I asked. “I don’t like that.” I explained that when a stranger points at you and says something, sometimes it’s hard to tell if they are being nice, mean or inquisitive. If you don’t like it when people do it to you, don’t do it to other people. But, this was in the privacy of our own home. The singing boy on America’s Got Talent had no clue that my son thought he was gay. I texted my friend Jeff. “Can you see gay people? Like is gaydar real?” I wrote before explaining the situation to him. Jeff thinks C.J. is just looking for himself, for people who are like him. As a child, Jeff did the same thing — he just didn’t announce it to his parents. Some of my brother’s friends had the same reaction. That explanation seemed the most likely. C.J. points out gay people like he does fellow redheads. I absolutely want C.J. to know and feel that there are other people like him out there, that he’s not an oddity. But, I also want him to have manners and be respectful. So, I explained that when he sees someone whom he thinks is gay, he can always tell me privately, but it’s not okay to point and say it publicly. (As you can tell, I have none of the parenting answers; I just make things up as I go along.) The third time was the charm. C.J.’s much more discreet about seeing gay people and I remind him that it’s not cool to assume something about someone you don’t know. “I see gay people,” he’ll whisper to me with a smile. It’s like a way-less creepy version of the kid in The Sixth Sense who saw dead people. I look around and sometimes I see gay people too and sometimes I don’t. Sometimes only C.J. can. Question: If you are gay or lesbian, can you instinctively identify gay and lesbian people? Does gaydar really exist? How would you handle this parenting situation?    All Posts Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming homosexual LGBTQ parenting raising a gay child My Son Sees Gay People  A year ago Matt was badly injured while he was on duty. He has been at home trying to heal and adjust ever since. Being married to a police officer, I knew that this was a possibility, that he could leave for work one day and return with our lives changed – or not return at all. While his new physical limitations break my heart for him, I’m just thankful that he returned to me. I’ve watched him go from brutal 60-hour work weeks to being home full-time (which also felt a little brutal at first. “He’s. Always. Here,” I remember texting a friend in those first days of more togetherness than I was used to). I was warned to look for changes in him. Boredom, fear, anger, depression. You tell me to look out for something and I get a little bit hyper-vigilant. I was looking so closely for the negative that it took me a while to see the positive. Matt had morphed from a tough-guy cop to an amazing stay at home dad. Since Chase was born 13 years ago, I had been the primary caregiver parent. I juggled (horribly) working part-time, writing, keeping the house in order (kind of, but not really) and caring for the kids. With Matt not working, I started working more. I figured I’d have to still handle the majority of the child-rearing and house-running duties because that’s how moms tend to think. That we have to do it all. That we don’t get help. Because I’m the mom, when Matt instantly started taking on more around the house and with the kids I worried briefly that he wouldn’t “do it right” – and by “right” I meant the way I had always (half-assedly) done it. Then I thought to myself “Screw it! Let’s see how this goes.” That’s when I realized that Matt is the better stay at home parent. Hands down. Thumbs up. Without a doubt. With his weekly cleaning schedule as my witness. Once I got out of the way for a minute, I could see how much he truly loves raising our kids and investing in their lives. He’s more organized and tidier than I am. He can focus on tasks like doing the laundry; whereas I put a load in the washer and never return to put it in the dryer because I’ve moved on to starting and not finishing the dishes because I realized there was a junk drawer I needed to clean out. Then I get hungry and need a snack. And a nap. He has discovered Pinterest and has boards for recipes and home projects. Not only does he pin ideas (like I used to), but he actually gives them a try, too. He rarely has a Pinterest fail. He has the school drop off and pick up routine expertly timed and has a carpool text thread with a mom down the street and a stay at home dad across town. I worried momentarily how Matt being the primary caregiver parent would affect C.J.’s gender identity and gender expression. Would C.J. feel like he had to be more masculine with a man around more than a woman? Not at all. Matt has helped him build a fairy garden in the backyard, they watch RuPaul’s Drag Race together and, when I’m not around to have makeup done, C.J. does Matt’s makeup. Matt takes Chase to the park to fly his drones, the driving range to practice his swing and helps him find videos on YouTube to teach himself to play the guitar. There’s a new safety, comfort and predictability that the boys and I have enjoyed with Matt home this year. And, Matt enjoys it, too. “I love staying home, it’s easy, I have it down,” Matt says with a proud, sincere smile — which pisses off some of my stay-at-home mom friends. I have to clarify to them that he means it’s easier than working the streets as a police officer. Cheers to Matt, and all of the fathers out there who make fatherhood look easy – whether they work or not. And, if Father’s Day is a hard day for you….I see you and tomorrow this day will be over.    All Posts Father's Day fatherhood gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Matt Orange County parenting stay at home dad The Father Of My Children Has Changed  Growing up, I instinctively knew that I had to worry about my brother’s safety because he was slightly effeminate when young, people assumed he was gay as a teen, then he came out shortly after high school. All of those things made him a target for bullying, harassment, victimization and violence. I saw him find his people and it eased my worry. The first time he took me to a gay club, I remember thinking, “He’s found his people. He’s safe here.” The first time I visited his new place in West Hollywood, I remember thinking, “He’s found his people. He’s safe here.” My youngest son started showing signs of gender nonconformity at age three, started describing himself as gender nonconforming at five, self identified as a member of the LGBTQ community at eight. Little did I know that the worry I’ve always had for my LGBTQ brother’s safety had a long lost twin – it’s the worry I have for my LGBTQ son’s safety. “He just needs to find his people, then he’ll be safe. He just needs to find his people, then he’ll be safe,” I say over and over again to soothe myself, feel hopeful and remind myself that it gets better. I worry daily about the boys in the bathroom who try to see my son’s genitals to determine if he’s a boy or girl; the kids who tease him for reading The Babysitters Club books; the boys who tell him he shouldn’t wear his hair in a ponytail because ponytails are for girls; and the classmates who aren’t amused by his constant accessorizing with jewelry. On days when my worry runs high, I fantasize about the day when he finds his people. I daydream about taking him to his first gay club. I want to open the doors and walk in first, turnaround and see his face as he takes it all in and realizes that he has – finally – found his people. Standing in that gay club, staring at my rainbow boy, I’d think to myself, “You’ve found your people. You’re safe here.” I awoke this morning to news of the shooting in Orlando. The deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. At an LGBTQ nightclub. The shooter was angry because a couple of months ago he saw two gay men kissing. At least 50 people are dead and at least 53 more are injured. My brother is not safe. My son is not safe. Even if they find their people. Because monsters can find them there, too. My son asked what happened in Orlando because he heard mention of it several times on the news this morning. I had to tell him that a man went into a gay club and killed and shot the people inside. “Why?” my son asked. “Because he didn’t like the people inside,” I answered. “That’s awful? People can just do that?” my son asked with fear in his eyes. I wanted to say no, that people couldn’t just do that. But, the truth is, they can. And I always try to give my kids the truth. “But, we’re okay,” I said. “That happened all the way on the other side of the United States.” To my son that’s a world away. To me it’s down the street. Today, as I snuggled with my son watching RuPaul’s Drag Race, took him to Target to spend his money on a new doll and, now, as I watch him flip and dance on the trampoline, I’m near tears. I can’t keep him safe. His people can’t keep him safe. The only thing that could make his life a little safer is being cisgender and straight. Being the complete opposite of who he naturally is would keep him safe. As a mother, I’d rather my son be his happy, rainbow self and be unsafe, than miserably pretend to be somebody he’s not and have a better chance of survival. It’s hard to admit that. “He just needs to find his people, then he’ll be safe,” I continue to think to myself. My worry remains, but so does my hope.    All Posts #hernamewastaylor bullying Gay Gay pride Gender gender nonconforming hate hate crime parenting Pulse raising a gay child transgender He Just Needs To Find His People, Then He’ll Be Safe  Me on the day of 6th grade graduation (and looking like my Shih-tzu’s twin). It’s end-of-the-school-year season around here. For middle school and high school students, that means there are lots of events happening for which the youth are expected to look extra nice and fancy. Which also means it’s a time when schools send out special dress codes based on stereotypes of what males and females should wear. That stupid gender binary. Boy and girl. Pink and blue. You wear this and you wear that. For example, this week, an Orange County middle school sent out the following dress code for their 8th grade Promotion Ceremony: “Appropriate dress for the promotion ceremony: GIRLS: Dress, skirt, blouse, and/or nice pants, comfortable shoes, small platform heels or sandals. Modest strapless and spaghetti straps are allowed for promotion. Appropriateness and reasonable modesty is the key here. BOYS: Nice pants, buttoned shirt, polo shirt, closed-in shoes. Cleanliness and proper grooming is the key focus for the boys.” Where do I begin? Let’s start with the law. According to federal law, students have the right to dress and present in a way that is consistent with their gender identity, so long as they follow rules for how to dress that apply to *all* students. This includes how they dress at school every day as well as for dances, graduation, and other school events. According to our state’s (California) safe school laws, students have the right to wear clothing that expresses their gender identity. If a school has a policy that says what boys and girls may wear to school or for special events, then the school must allow students to wear the clothing that corresponds to their gender identity. It’s even better if school dress codes are gender-neutral and do not tell students what to wear based on stereotypes about what some people think boys or girls should wear. Dress codes like the one above are in violation of federal and state laws stating that clothing options must be the same for every student regardless of their gender identity and expression. Dress codes need to be inclusive of transgender and gender nonconforming students. Take my gender nonconforming son for example. He rolls his eyes at polos, but loves a good blouse. He would prefer a small feminine shoe rather than a masculine dress shoe. The kid has his own style and has the legal right to express it at school and school events. Me at 8th grade graduation, proving that it does get better (barely). Laws aside, the “key focuses” listed for each gender make me cringe. Assigning the adjectives “appropriate” and “modest” to girls assumes that girls inevitably will want to be immodest and inappropriate. It’s exactly this kind of rhetoric that feeds into a larger culture of victim blaming in cases of sexual assault (think of a college campus in the news). Telling boys that their “key focus” is cleanliness and proper grooming implies that they are usually dirty, smelly slobs (but hopefully they can pull it together and shower for this special event if they try their best). By specifically stating that boys must be clean and well groomed, the school implies that they either assume girls are naturally clean and groomed or that it’s fine if girls are dirty and sloppy (as long as they aren’t dressing in a way that distracts the boys). These are unfortunate messages for kids to hear. And, these dress codes have lasting effects. A friend explains: “I just wanted to share how triggering this dress code is for me and how surprised I am by this. I want to share because I think it gives perspective on how damaging these types of things can be. While I had no idea what a lesbian was when I was in middle school, I clearly knew that I was different. I also was obviously a ‘tomboy.’ In middle school, I was a quite gifted musician for my age, and as such, was selected to perform in an honor orchestra. This was exciting, until the dress code for the concert was handed out. I didn’t participate in that concert, and there were other events I missed out on as well due to this. All through school, I loved to sing, but never joined choir because of the required gowns that the girls had to wear. What surprises me is how this still resonates with me as a 52 year old woman.” This friend went on to have a career as a professional musician at the highest level, including performing with the Los Angeles Philharmonic. It’s devastating to think that her middle school dress code had the potential to turn her off to music forever…and that it could be doing so to student musicians right now. What are unlawful and implying dress codes keeping students from doing? Playing in the orchestra? Attending graduation? Going to prom? Staying in school? Get it together dress-code-writing adults – or, at least, you know, abide by the laws of your job. (I wrote this post while ungroomed and dressed inappropriately just to prove a point and go against the key focuses in this middle school dress code. The world did not end.)    All Posts Dress Codes Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Middle School Orange County parenting Safe School Laws transgender Dress Code Debacle  Last week, for the second year in a row, C.J. walked up to Santa and said, “I don’t believe in you, but I want to tell you what I want for Christmas just in case.” Santa was nice and obliged. As I listened, it struck me how much more accepting and nonjudgmental Santas have gotten over the years. When C.J. was little and asked for “girl toys,” Santa would make a face and/or a small little quip. This Santa just smiled and nodded. Then again, he told the kid in front of us that he was on parole, so maybe he was just happy to be out of jail for the holidays to find some solid seasonal work. The items on the top of C.J.’s wish list are… pc: American Girl Logan doll by American Girl: This year was the first time (in their 31-year history) that American Girl introduced a boy doll. His name is Logan and he is reportedly a hipster who plays the drums in a band. “But, you don’t even really play with your American Girl dolls that much anymore,” I said, trying to save myself $115. “I play with them sometimes. And, besides, I have to show American Girl that they did the right thing and should be proud of themselves for finally making an American Boy.” I hope my $115 makes American Girl feel super proud of themselves. pc: Gap Denim jacket from the Gap: I’m in trouble. C.J is starting to care about brand names. He wants a denim jacket and specifically said on his list “it should be from the Gap or Levi’s – NOT FROM TARGET!!!” Zinger. Those three exclamation points really made me listen up. Little does he know, I consider myself lucky that Gap and Levi’s are the fanciest brands he could think of. All the bath bombs in the world: There’s nothing C.J. loves more than a warm bath after a long day of fifth grade and gymnastics. A former bubble bath aficionado, he now prefers the more effervescent bath bomb. He has requested one for every day of the year until next Christmas. He is not getting that many. A DIY bath bomb kit: Perfect. I’ll get him the kit and he can make his own bath bombs for the year. I’m sure that won’t be a messy project. pc: Target Conair Infiniti Pro Rainbow Curling Iron with a 1-inch barrel: He’s 10 years old. How does he know he wants a 1-inch barrel and not 1.25 or 1.5? Batiste dry shampoo: Don’t ask me. He sees the commercials and is convinced he needs it to refresh his hair in between washes. Sewing basket filled with supplies: “And not a toy one for kids, a real legit one!” The softest blanket in the world: I hope the one I got for $8 at Kohl’s on Black Friday works. Fingerling: Who would name a child’s toy a Fingerling? Whoever did was smart, because those things are hard as hell to find. The first two I ordered from China via Amazon never arrived and were hard to get refunded. pc: Amazon   As sassy and particular as C.J. can be, I know he’d be happy with any gift I picked for him. He’s full of the Christmas spirit. After all, his sense of wonder isn’t confined to the holidays. It’s a year-round thing. I hope that you and yours have a wonderful next few weeks. Follow us on Instagram (@RaisingMyRainbow) to keep in touch until 2018. And, if the holidays aren’t happy for you, please know that I’m thinking about you. Remember, you are not alone 🌈 If you need support, reach out to The Trevor Project 24/7 at: 866.488.7386. Find more ways to connect with a safe, online community at: www.thetrevorproject.org       All Posts Christmas gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Orange County parenting A 10-Year-Old Boy’s Christmas List  A few months ago, we spent the day with Chelsea Handler talking about parenting, gender and what it’s like raising a gender nonconforming child. See some of our time together on the latest episode of her Netflix show Chelsea (Season 1, Episode 10). It’s all about adventures in parenting. She made us laugh, we made her dinner, Chase flirted with her and C.J. called her a racist. You know, the usual. Click here for full episode.   Don’t have Netflix? You can catch bits of the episode on Chelsea’s YouTube channel by clicking here.       All Posts Chelsea Chelsea Handler Gender gender nonconforming LGBTQ Netflix parenting transgender Chelsea Handler, Parenting, Gender & Us  I’ve put together a brief, 10-question survey that I’d like educators and administrators to answer. The survey is 100 percent anonymous. I’m not interested in who you are; I’m interested in what grade you teach, the state you live in and what you know about protecting LGBTQ students. The results will be woven into a longer piece I’m writing about addressing LGBTQ bullying in America’s schools. If I publish results, it would happen on my blog; but, currently, my only goal is to include my findings in the aforementioned piece. I really just want to get a feel for what teachers currently know so that I may be able to:  Help them learn more; Help parents/primary caregivers of LGBTQ students better communicate with teachers should a problem arise; and Urge districts and school to do more to educate faculty and staff about LGBTQ bullying.  I ask credentialed educators and administrators from across the U.S. who are currently or have recently taught in grades K-12 to participate. If you are outside of this demographic, but want to discuss LGBTQ bullying in schools, please email me directly at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com instead of taking the survey. Please share this link far and wide. https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/9X987MM All best, Lori Duron    All Posts bullying LGBTQ safe schools survey teachers Survey of Teachers: LGBTQ Bullying on Campus  How can you tell if you have a good brother? If his Christmas gift to you is 10 days and nights of free childcare. If you are a parent, you will understand how priceless this gift is. If you’re not a parent, give this gift to someone you love. Uncle Michael had the boys for two nights and three days during Spring Break. They went to the Shake Shack for lunch, Au Fudge for brunch, decorated cake at Duff’s Cakemix, hosted a dinner party, made “Spaghetti Two Ways” (don’t ask), visited the La Brea Tar Pits, stayed up past their bedtime and counted 110 cigarette butts on the ground during their stay (my kids are weird). C.J. and Chase thought they had the best time, but Matt and I were wine tasting so obviously we won. As we drove home from West Hollywood to Orange County, the boys were mostly quiet in the backseat, until C.J. shouted, “I forgot to tell you, gurl!!! I’m a drag queen!” Turns our, my brother had also let them watch RuPaul’s Drag Race. A few days later — after much begging – I agreed to sit down and watch Drag Race with C.J. I had seen clips from the show here and there, but never a full episode. “You’re going to like this show, mom. When we watch it, we all get their ‘hes’ and ‘shes’ mixed up like people do when they talk about me,” he said. If that’s not a solid reason to watch, I don’t know what is. We started with the current season’s first episode and C.J. immediately started rapid-firing questions that I could not answer. I had to text my brother. Over and over and over again. I used to think  I was pretty knowledgeable about LGBTQ culture. Watching Drag Race with my nine-year-old son has taught me that there is much for me to learn. I also texted my friend Jeff who watches Drag Race and is one of my go-to people when it comes to LGBTQ-related things.  Bob The Drag Queen continues to be C.J.’s overall favorite contestant this season, while he thinks Kim Chi has the best makeup. “That’s sad that Kim Chi’s mom, Mrs. Chi, doesn’t know that she is a drag queen and wouldn’t approve. I would always tell you if I was a drag queen and I’d want you and dad and Chase to come to my shows!” My heart swelled. When your son tells you that if he were a drag queen he’d want you to watch him perform, you know you’ve done something right as a parent. Naomi Smalls is still my favorite and I want her body. But I’m 38, have had two kids and like to eat chips, so it’s a dream that will never be realized. C.J.’s favorite part of each episode is when the two final contestants have to lip sync for their lives. He asked me if I’ve ever had to lip sync for my life. I have not. And, be warned Drag Race contestants current and future, if you take your heels and/or wig off to lip sync for your life, C.J. will automatically yell at the TV that you need to sashay away. At first we were moving very slowly through the season. When we finally did get caught up on the current season, C.J. asked if we could watch a past season while we waited for a new episode. I found season four for free on Amazon. Watching two seasons at once has me getting all of my queens and challenges confused. Thankfully C.J. remembers them all (even though he has a hard time remembering his multiplication tables), so he helps me along. In conclusion, I’ll leave you with our house rules for watching the show, in case you need some boundaries for yourself and/or your house: Current Rules C.J. Must Follow In Order To Watch RuPaul’s Drag Race  All homework must be done. You must watch it with your mom or dad. We don’t use the word “fishy” to describe people. (He has no idea what this alludes to.) We don’t use the words “bitch” and “fuck.” (Well, I do, but he’s not allowed yet.) Even though RuPaul says “Con-drag-ulations” the real word is “Congratulations” and we use that. (In case it’s ever on a spelling test.) We don’t put glue sticks in our eyebrows until we are a little bit older or have adult supervision for the application and removal. (I’m not looking forward to dealing with this mess.) We don’t attempt to glue our wigs to our heads. (I wouldn’t even know where to begin.) We fast forward through “Shade Throwing” because that’s not a nice way to talk to people. (I think he will eventually need to learn to throw shade, but not just yet.) As soon as the show is over, it’s time to immediately sashay away to bed.     All Posts Bob the Drag Queen Drag Race Gay Gender Kim Chi LGBTQ Logo Naomi Smalls parenting RuPaul's Drag Race Uncle Michael My Son Loves Drag Races  When people ask for resources to help raise and/or support a differently gendered child, at the top of my list has long been Dr. Diane Ehrensaft’s book Gender Born, Gender Made. I’ve officially added her latest book (released this month) to that list. The Gender Creative Child: Pathways for Nurturing and Supporting Children Who Live Outside Gender Boxes is another must-read from the person I’ve called the patron saint of kids who don’t conform to traditional gender norms. Dr. Ehrensaft explains gender and children like no one can. And, in her new book, she equips adults to understand and support gender-expansive children the way they deserve to be. I’m often asked how an adult can tell if a child is transgender or gender creative (gender nonconforming). Because I’m not an expert, I typically don’t know the child and giving the wrong answer could seriously impact the child’s life, I’m always hesitant to give my feedback. I do say that when he was younger, C.J. would say “I wish I was a girl” and “I want to be a girl.” As many times as people told me that those phrases meant he was transgender, my mom-gut told me that wasn’t the case. There’s a difference between wanting to be something and genuinely feeling like you are something. Of course Dr. Ehrensaft explains it better in what was, for me, the most impactful part of The Gender Creative Child. “One simple verb will also be one of the signposts that can differentiate a young transgender child from other gender creative children. It is the verb to be. Children who are communicating to us their transgender self will often say, “I am a…(fill in opposite gender or some other gender)” rather than “I wish I were a…” or “I want to be a…” This is not universally true….but for those children who feel no necessity to hedge their bets to appease others or who have met with no confused or disapproving responses, the simple sentence “I am a…” is a very clear signpost identifying a child who is not the gender people they are.” Want to read more? Dr. Ehrensaft will gift a copy of her book to one of my readers. To enter to win, leave a comment below. Any comment. A thought. A joke. A note. A quote. A question. Whatever. A winner will be announced here around 5 p.m. PDT on Friday, April 29. This giveaway has ended. The winner is Yumi! Yumi, please see my reply to your comment below. Thanks to all who entered. Good luck!    All Posts Diane Ehrensaft Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ parenting transgender The Gender Creative Child Book Giveaway  C.J. started dabbling in makeup like most of us started — with Lip Smackers and cheap, hand-me-down eyeshadow that was a free gift with purchase. A spritz of perfume here. A few coats of nail polish there. Suddenly his makeup bag grew from a old small one I used to carry in my purse to a hard pink box the size of a briefcase with vanity lights inside. He applied his makeup to himself. Then his Barbies. Then the mannequin head my mother-in-law bought him for Christmas. That head is, more often than not, eerily affixed to our kitchen island; staring at me as I watch TV long after C.J. has gone to bed and the night has grown dark. “You scared the shit out of me!” I say to it often while catching my breath.  Once C.J. started doing my makeup, he begged to do it every night. With little regard for my skin’s rebellion. My adult acne is due in large part to my son’s heavy application of makeup night after night. When we were young, my brother and I did our mom’s makeup and always aimed for a natural look. You know, lipstick on the lips, eyeliner on the lids, mascara on the lashes. I quickly learned that C.J. doesn’t care for a natural look. The first time C.J. did my makeup, he turned me into a zombie. Then I was a “Candy Girl” inspired by Katy Perry. With heart-shaped blush and candy swirls rising from my eyes. Then, I was the girl from the Starbucks logo. When I saw myself in the mirror the only thought I had was “please, please, please let all of this come off for work tomorrow.” A future fine artist who also does makeup to support himself, C.J. still does his own makeup from time to time. Here he gave himself a “Big Eyes” look based on the art of Margaret D. H. Keane. Naturally, a new favorite pastime of C.J.’s is watching makeup tutorials on YouTube. Who do you recommend? I’m not the only one in the family who gets their makeup done by C.J. Click here to read about him doing Matt’s makeup.    All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Katy Perry LGBTQ Makeup Matt parenting Starbucks When My Son Does My Makeup  For years, my son has been using my wife’s makeup to give his Barbie dolls makeovers and put makeup on a life-size mannequin head he got for Christmas a while back. Then he started doing my wife’s makeup regularly, so I figured it was inevitable that I would be his next victim. A couple of years ago, C.J. asked if I would allow him to do my makeup. Of course I said yes. Why wouldn’t I? Why wouldn’t I want to be a part of something that brings joy to my son’s life? If I said no to something as trivial as allowing him to paint my face, what would I be teaching him? I’d be teaching him that playing dress-up or giving his dad a makeover is something to be ashamed of or something to hide. I don’t want to teach him that. I want to teach him that his dad wants to spend time with him no matter what we’re doing. I want him to know that even though I’m not interested in makeup or fashion, I will play along as long as I get to sit and talk with him. While he’s doing my makeup, he talks about everything. From what’s going on at school to which eye shadow brings out my blue eyes. When I agree wholeheartedly as he discusses what makeup colors go with my skin tone, I’m teaching him that his opinions and tastes matter to me. I’m teaching him that I’ll listen to him when he wants to talk and I will find time for him even when I’m busy. My son doing my makeup is the same as a dad throwing a football with his son. It’s not about what you are doing together; it’s about doing it together. It’s about encouraging your children to engage with you. It’s about spending time with your child doing something they enjoy doing. Allowing your children to be themselves is very important. There are activities I do with Chase that I don’t do with C.J. because they aren’t fun for him. There are activities I do with C.J. that Chase doesn’t want to do. And, there are activities we all do together. Spending quality time with each of my sons helps strengthen my relationship with them. When C.J. does my makeup, it makes me feel like I’m experiencing something with him that he loves doing. It makes me feel like maybe I’m encouraging and empowering him to have fun with something that may end up being his career as an adult. Or, it’s just something we can do together that shows him that his dad loves spending time with him no matter what we are doing. He loves doing my makeup because he can make me look silly or dramatic and it cracks him up. Sometimes he takes it very serious, like he is really trying to make me look good. Other times it’s more of a face painting exercise than anything. Either way, he loves doing it and I love being a part of some type of activity that my son loves doing.    All Posts Dads fatherhood gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Makeup Matt parenting Real Dads Let Their Sons Do Their Makeup  The Chicago Tribune recently asked me and others, “When boys wear dresses: What does it mean?” “At a time when there’s increasing awareness of transgender adults, the youngest gender-nonconforming Americans are also starting to come forward. That includes the kids who are adamant about having been born in the wrong body, as well as a much larger group of kids who consistently and markedly defy gender norms, but in ways that aren’t as easy to categorize: boys like C.J. who love dolls and dress-up but don’t identify as girls…” Click here to read the full story.      All Posts Chicago Tribune Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ parenting transgender Raising My Rainbow In The Chicago Tribune  “I had planned to become a Catholic priest–I spent 18 months in seminary following college before I realized I was gay. I also attempted suicide when I was 13.” – Singer/Songwriter Tom Goss. Stop everything you’re doing and watch this powerful music video. See if you can spot my three favorite people in the world. And, share!     All Posts Gay homosexual LGBTQ Michael Serrato Music Music Video parenting PFLAG raising a gay child Son of a Preacher Man The Trevor Project Tom Goss Son of a Preacher Man  Mindy Kaling (Photo cred: E!) On Giuliana Rancic: I’d wear that to a fancy Easter dinner. On Mindy Kaling: It looks like she was a blueberry and then she got run over right up her middle and the blueberries squeezed out her armpits. On Sam Smith and Jimmy Napes: Are they married? They should be. On Alicia Vikander: Hello lemons! Now THAT looks like the Oscars! On Sofia Vergara: It looks like a curtain that a grandma would have and a little too much of her boobs are out. But I love her earrings. On Priyanka Chopra: That is way too much see through. Her belt looks like a lock for a diary. Olivia Wilde (Photo cred: VALERIE MACON/AFP/Getty Images) On Olivia Wilde: She’s not a dog so she doesn’t need a collar. And she’s not Miley Cyrus so she doesn’t need that top. The bottom looks like a cupcake wrapper. On Saoirse Ronan: I don’t see anything wrong with it, except the earrings. On Naomi Watts: That’s my favorite so far! She looks like a mermaid. Favorite. On Olivia Munn: I like it. It looks like she is wearing a side cape. Are Forevermark diamonds from Forever 21? On Jennifer Jason Lee: It looks like an old timey hat. Is she drunk or something? On Rooney Mara: Too much lace. She has lots of hair; she should have a big bun, not a tiny bun. Brie Larson (Photo cred: Getty/Jeff Kravitz) On Brie Larson: I LOVE IT! I don’t even have any words! I LOVE IT! On Heidi Klum: She can do better than that. It’s like Cinderella got in a fight with her stepsisters and they ripped off her sleeve and her boob line. On Bryan Cranston: Snooze. On Chrissy Teigen: Too bad someone squirted hot sauce all over her. On Ashley Graham: She did her boobs all wrong. She needs to fix it a lot. She did it all wrong. All wrong. On Cate Blanchett: That looks nice with her skin color. How does she get her skin to look like that? On Jared Leto: He’s the funnest boy! Jared Leto (Photo cred: E!)    All Posts Academy Awards gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Oscars Oscars 2016 C.J.’s Oscars Red Carpet Reactions    Binary: (adj.) consisting of, indicating, or involving two.  When I first started blogging about my adventures in raising a gender creative son, I wasn’t very educated when it came to gender. All I knew is that I wanted everybody to be cool with my then-3-year-old son wearing a dress and loving the Disney Princesses. I wanted it to be okay for boys to like feminine things and girls to like masculine things. I didn’t know at first that I was fighting the gender binary. Gender binary: (n.) the classification of gender into two distinct, opposite and disconnected forms of masculine and feminine. Male vs. female. Boy vs. girl. Blue vs. pink. Superhero vs. princess. It seemed like everybody wanted my son to be one or the other. Either or. People were uncomfortable with him living in the middle — in the no man’s and no woman’s land. Over the years, I’ve watched as things started to change in regards to the public visibility, awareness, understanding and acceptance of differently gendered people. The binary was being busted and I couldn’t have been happier. TIME Magazine even proclaimed that society had reached “the transgender tipping point” and that the transgender movement is poised to challenge deeply held cultural beliefs. Yes! Bring it on! America was finally talking about gender. It’s complexity. It’s fluidity. It’s individuality. The general public might, maybe, hopefully, be beginning to understand the ridiculousness of the gender binary. For years, I’ve been sharing our family’s story in hopes of encouraging people to loosen up a little about gender, allow it to be fluid and support those who aren’t solely masculine or solely feminine. People can be both or neither or a unique mixture that can vary depending on the day or hour.  For the sake of my son, I wanted the world to see that there are more than just two options when it comes to gender expression and identity. Laverne Cox, Jazz Jennings, Caitlyn Jenner and others were helping by living publicly, authentically and without shame. They are brave beyond belief and I’m so thankful for them. After all, if people can handle a former male Olympian as a female in a corset on the cover of Vanity Fair, surely they would be cool with my son wearing a skirt while maintaining that he’s a boy. But they weren’t. They aren’t. Things seemed to swing in another direction. Because of the transgender movement, there has become a new binary. Cisgender vs. transgender. Cisgender: (adj.) noting or relating to a person whose gender identity corresponds with that person’s biological sex assigned at birth. (Example: I was assigned female at birth because of my vagina and my gender is female.) Every time I publish a blog post or post to social media and use masculine pronouns for my son (whether I’m talking about his desire to be called Mrs. Clooney, get his ears pierced, etc.), people — no matter how accepting and progressive they think they are — tell me I’m using the wrong pronouns. They insist that my son is transgender and that I’m not honoring that.  Good for them. Seriously. Good for more people pushing others to honor people who are transgender. But, gender policing me sometimes seems like it isn’t an act of understanding, but rather an act prompted by a lack of understanding. I couldn’t be honoring my son’s gender identity any more when he is expressing himself as female and I use the masculine pronouns that he prefers. He is a boy who likes to wear skirts, lip-gloss, sparkly ballet flats and (for now) clip on earrings. He knows what it means to be transgender, he’s watched two of his friends and countless adults transition. He insists that he is not transgender. He identifies as gender nonconforming. He says he’s a boy who only likes girl things and wants to be treated like a girl. He doesn’t like it when people use feminine pronouns to address or talk about him. He loves his male anatomy (as 9-year-old boys are wont to do). In the new gender binary, he has no home. Cisgender vs. transgender. He’s neither. In the old gender binary, he has no home. Male vs. female. He’s neither. So, still, I find myself fighting a gender binary while explaining my son’s gender identity and expression. That’s fine, I will do it until the day I die or until he asks me to stop. It’s just that, when I saw transgender education and acceptance coming to the forefront, I expected things to be different. I thought that if society could see, start to understand and accept transgender people (which some consider to be at the very extreme end of the cisgender-transgender gender binary), that they would have no problem at all accepting all of the people who are “just” gender nonconforming. We have to get beyond trans. Let’s make that the next social movement. Let’s get to the point where we say, “Hey, I don’t know if that person is male or female or both or neither, so I’m just going to treat them like a person” or “My brain tells me to use female pronouns for that person but the person tells me to use masculine pronouns, so I’m going to masculine pronouns because what the hell does it matter to me?!” or “That guy likes to wear skirts. Cool.” Let’s respect every person’s unique gender journey by not believing in any binary. Let’s bust the binary. Once and for all.   Click here to read this post on HuffPost Queer Voices.       All Posts Binary Cisgender Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Huffington Post HuffPost parenting Queer Voices transgender The New Gender Binary  C.J. visiting Matt at work a few years ago. *A post by Matt.* After nearly 20 years as a police officer and detective, I was involved in a fight with an arrestee and injured my back. Due to the extent of the injury, I was forced into early retirement from law enforcement. While my family was happy I was leaving a dangerous career, I had many reservations about being forced into retirement. Yes, the thought of sleeping during nighttime hours was something I had craved for years; but, I knew I would miss the excitement, quick thinking and spontaneous problem solving I did on the job. I became the primary caregiver parent for our two boys while Lori started working more. A few weeks in my new role it became clear that I wouldn’t miss out on excitement, quick thinking and spontaneous problem solving. C.J. would provide it. Chase has always been a very easy child. He’s easy-going, he listens, he rarely argues, he’s not impulsive and he never raises his voice in frustration or to make his point. C.J. however, is a totally different story. This past summer was my first summer home with the boys full time. By August, I couldn’t wait for school to start. These are the kind of pics Matt and C.J. send me at work. I’ve worked through triple-digit Southern California summers on the street in a wool uniform atop a bulletproof vest or locked in sweltering stake out cars with no air conditioning. Those summers weren’t the hardest. Summer 2017 was the hardest because every day I had to match wits with a strong, sassy, opinionated, confident, creative, spontaneous 10-year-old who was bored and adjusting to having dad – not mom – home the most. Nothing was easy. If I said black, he said white. If I wanted yogurt, he wanted ice cream. If I wanted the pool, he wanted the beach. Everything was a battle. If I never hear “Mom doesn’t do it that way…” again, it will be too soon. He would tell me when I was having a bad hair day and needed to put a hat on or if, worse yet, I was wearing an unflattering outfit. How can swim trunks look “not swim-y” and a tank top look “too arm-y”? While Chase was busy with high school football practices and weight lifting, I was shuttling C.J from art camp to tennis lessons to sewing camp. It was more than 100 damn degrees and I was in and out of the car carrying racquets, sewing baskets and more clay projects than we have space for. Every day, after every camp, C.J. told me how I didn’t pack a snack, I packed the wrong snack or I packed too much snack (how is that even possible). Matt lets C.J. do his makeup to work on his skills. When I was working, I used to envy stay-at-home parents. I pictured parents – especially moms – enjoying free time with their kids. During the summer I pictured them lounging by the pool with their mom-friends and their kids, reading magazines, gossiping and maybe sipping on an adult beverage. I assumed they felt kid-free as their children entertained themselves in the pool. During school holidays, I pictured the stay-at-home moms sleeping in, doing a craft stress-free, watching a movie and feeling happy, relaxed and refreshed. I’d been wrong. So wrong. That’s not stay-at-home life; I’m sorry for ever thinking it was. I know better now. Occasionally, I call Lori at work to vent about stay-at-home life. “I have to go. Work is crazy-busy today,” she says to me. That used to be my line. Now it’s hers and it’s hard to hear. I know I can be difficult to deal with. I’m confident and loud. I have difficulty hiding my true emotions. I’m honest to a fault. I can be impulsive. Being a stay-at-home parent, I’ve realized that C.J. is exactly like me. Lori always said so, but I never listened. How could an effeminate little boy who wears skirts and plays with dolls be exactly like me? But, he is, my feminine son is exactly like masculine me. It took me being home with him full-time to see how glaringly obvious it is. Matt took C.J. to the church we were married at. .While spending countless hours with him in the car or at home doing homework and projects, we have grown incredibly close. For a father and son to have such different interests, pursuits and goals, we have the same humor, personality and sarcasm. Since being home with him full-time, I’ve seen his assuredness and confidence grow. He’s become stronger. That’s not to say he’s become more masculine, it’s to say he’s become more confident and unapologetic in his feminine gender expression. He knows he can be exactly who he is and he has all of my love and support. He can sashay into school wearing French braids, carrying his pink emoji lunchbox and he – and all of his schoolmates – know that I’ll greet him with a smile and hug when school gets out. Being the primary caregiver parent has changed me, too. I’ve grown. I retired before age 40. Most people say I’m lucky, and I am, but it also takes some adjusting to. I went from being a cop to being the parent responsible for a lot of the emotional care of our children. I’ve traded traditional gender roles with my wife to stay home with our blue teenager and pink boy. Now, I know where things are at the grocery store and in the pantry and my wife doesn’t. It’s my job to know when we’re almost out of toilet paper and what flavor jelly the boys prefer at the moment. And kayaking on the lake by our house. As much as we’ve prided ourselves in ignoring society’s ideas of traditional gender roles, we’ve had some adjusting to do. At times, it’s been challenging for our relationship and my friendships with other guys. Longtime guy friends think it’s weird that I search Pinterest for recipes and know when the local bakery has 50 percent off cupcakes (Tuesdays) and cookies (Thursdays). Our lives have been full of adjustments. The adjustments were hard for a while. The loss of my professional identity. The physical pain of my injury. The role reversal in our marriage. Getting used to being the stay-at-home parent. But, as the four of us always do, we found our way. I’m so proud to be the father of our boys and grateful to be able to be home with them. I realize now more than ever that I missed a lot when I was working. This summer was difficult and challenging and the school year couldn’t come fast enough. Now, I see winter break winking at me from a few weeks away and I look the other way while I can. But, I wouldn’t change a thing.    All Posts gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Matt Orange County parenting stay at home dad Going From Cop to Stay-At-Home Dad  Yay sportsing! Yay football! Yay Super Bowl! Chase likes football. He played flag football for three years and really enjoyed it; but he didn’t enjoy getting teased by his peers for it. Apparently flag football isn’t cool. You know what is cool? Spending $1,000+ a year and giving up all of your weekends to play Pop Warner and risk a traumatic injury. I don’t want my kids – or anybody – to be tackled. I can’t think of many times in life when tackling is necessary. Our family agreed that when Chase started middle school he could start Pop Warner. We signed him up, paid the dues and cleared our schedules. I sprung for the safest helmet money could buy. The first week was all conditioning and no contact. That was a good week. Then came the first practice in pads with full contact and it went like this: Pop Warner Coach: Do you have any experience playing defensive end? Chase: Yeah, I played it in flag football. Pop Warner Coach: Don’t ever say that again or I’ll kick you in the nuts. Flag football is fag football. I didn’t hear the exchange, but I could tell something was wrong as I walked to the car with Chase after practice. He wouldn’t say a word until we were in the car and on our way home; because he’s smart enough to know that when he told me, I might march myself back to the field and say something to the coach. “Are you (bit my tongue so the eff word wouldn’t escape) kidding me?!” I said. “I know, right?!” Chase was a little relieved that he had told me — and that I was past the point of turning the car and making my way to the field. I tried my hardest to use it as a teachable moment. Adults shouldn’t use that language. Playing flag football doesn’t make you gay. No one should say that they are going to kick someone in the nuts. Blah. Blah. Blah. “I know all of that. I’m straight. I just feel bad because there has to be at least one gay kid on my team and if they heard that they probably feel sad and horrible,” he explained. My heart melted. When we got home we filled Matt in and I have to admit that a teensy tiny part of me worried that he would say that it sucks but that’s how it is in football. That was a ridiculous worry; he was more upset than I was. After we got the kids settled in bed for the night, I called my brother. “That is horrible! Ugh! That makes me so mad! I knew this was going to happen. I just knew it. When I played Pop Warner, I was bullied and called the worst names because I was the little gay kid whose parents signed him up for tackle football. Chase is too good for football,” he said. I was ready to spend the evening crafting a strongly worded email to Pop Warner backed by the effects of bullying and homophobia on LGBTQ kids, but Matt wanted to actually talk to the appropriate people about the situation. So, I wrote that email in my head over and over all night, perfecting it, because I can’t let go of words and because I’m better at writing words than talking to people. He called the head coach who was shocked. Minutes before the next practice Matt brought it up to another parent from the team (and Pop Warner board member) with others in earshot — which always gives me anxiety because where we live there’s usually a good chance that people will brush it off or defend homophobic slurs. But, every other parent who heard was appalled. I wanted to hug them all. Turns out that along with being homophobic at practice, he was also drunk. He was immediately excused from practice and can no longer coach Pop Warner. Then, Chase broke his leg and was out for the season. And, I felt guilty. Like the broken leg was somehow the result of me wanting so badly for him to not play tackle football. I had to remind myself that broken legs can happen in any of the footballs: fag, flag, tackle, two-hand touch, powder-puff, etcetera.    All Posts bullying Chase Football Gay homosexual LGBTQ Orange County parenting Pop Warner Phobic Football  Guess who’s 9 years old today? C.J.! At the very top of his birthday wish list are:  All of the mannequins from the front window of the Dior store at South Coast Plaza. A pink diamond pendant necklace from Tiffany. MAC lip pencil in “Tease Me” pink. MAC lip pencil in “Hip N Happy” pink. Hand-painted, eerily-lifelike baby dolls. (see below)   I remember back to his third birthday when he wanted a Disney Princess themed party, which left Matt and I feeling uncomfortable and unsure. Oh how things change and evolve with the passing of time and  personal growth. Matt and I can’t wait for C.J.’s “Make My Birthday A Masterpiece” rainbow art party, when all of his best girl friends will gather around the table for an art lesson and rainbow cupcakes. Thanks to all of you for being there for these milestones. C.J. says “heyyyyyyyyyyy.” The biggest claw machine in Orange County…and obviously his favorite. Today he won three out of four times.    All Posts Birthday Birthday Party effeminate Fabulous Gender gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Orange County parenting Happy 9th Birthday C.J.!  C.J. had been waiting all week to watch the Golden Globes Red Carpet and share his thoughts and opinions via Facebook and Twitter. In case you missed the live action…          All Posts Golden Globes Red Carpet C.J. Live Tweets His Golden Globes Reactions  The kids had a bunch of days off from school recently because of holidays and the New Year and what not. I was trying to think of things to do with them when my brother suggested we meet him in Downtown L.A. for an urban hike and The Broad — the newest contemporary art museum in L.A. The day of our adventure, we met Uncle Michael and he took C.J. and Chase on the urban hike while Matt and I waited in line to get into The Broad with Grandma Colorado (who was in town visiting and agreed to go even though she doesn’t “know anything about that kind of art”). I’m not going to lie, that line is not short. If you’re better than us at things like preparing and planning ahead, check out their website for tickets. Uncle Michael led Chase and C.J. on a tour around the Walt Disney Concert Hall, where Chase – a possible future architect– admired the work and took lots of photos. They saw a bunch of other stuff too, but I can’t remember it all now because I was too busy standing in line at the time. As soon as we entered the doors of The Broad we were instantly mesmerized by the cave-like interior and stack of massive white dinner plates that was taller than any of us. It was well worth the two-hour wait. We went upstairs and saw Tulips by Jeff Koons. They look like a giant bouquet of tulips made out of balloons. (I’m horrible at describing art. I’m sorry. Forgive me, Mr. Koons; my sons love you.) C.J. made me take a picture of the sculpture from every angle and asked if he could have it for his room. I said no and crushed his dreams. When we entered the next room, C.J. lost his breath. There before him was an honest to goodness Andy Warhol work of art. It was Warhol’s Campbell’s Soup Can (Clam Chowder – Manhattan Style). It looks like a painting of a soup can. (Maybe I’m not so bad at describing art after all.) C.J. is obsessed with Andy Warhol. Things C.J. wants to be when he grows up in order of preference: Andy Warhol, an artist, a makeup artist. He made me take forty-eleven pictures of him in front of the soup can and all the other Warhols. Then, C.J. made me take a picture of Tips for Artists Who Want to Sell by John Baldessari because, after all, C.J. is an artist and wants to sell. (His New Year’s resolution is to become a working artist who gets paid. When I said maybe his resolution should be to memorize his multiplication tables he rolled his eyes.) C.J. was also super excited to see originals by another of his favorite artists, Keith Haring. He noticed that Haring’s works had “lots of boobs and private parts” in them and assured me that he’s not going to draw or paint private parts until he’s a little older. Like maybe fifth grade. As we walked through one room, C.J. nonchalantly (and embarrassingly) pointed to three paintings by one artist and said, “I could paint that. I could paint that. I could paint that.” “Yeah. But you didn’t,” Uncle Michael said to him before I could think of what to say. Sometimes Uncle Michael is better at dealing with C.J.’s sassiness than I am. (Because Uncle Michael can be just as sassy.) C.J. believed that Andy Warhol’s works would be his favorites in The Broad, until he arrived in Takashi Murakami’s room. “O.M.G. Take a picture of EVERYTHING!” he said. I did as I was instructed and filled up my entire camera roll. “I’m going to have my art in that museum someday,” C.J. said as we left. I told him that that would be awesome. “I’m going to have my birthday party at The Broad,” he said. I told him that wasn’t true. He’s been creating more art than ever since that day. He’s been mixing and naming his own paint colors. He adds baby powder to some paint to give it texture and smell. (Is that a brilliant idea or a horrible idea? I have no idea.) And he painted a Campbell’s Tomato Soup Can for Uncle Michael as a reminder of that special day. ***C.J. plans on live-tweeting/facebooking his thoughts on the red carpet looks of the 2016 Golden Globes (this Sunday). Tune in. I apologize in advance for what may come out of his mouth. #CJsays    All Posts Andy Warhol Art Downtown Los Angeles gender creative Jeff Koons John Baldessari Keith Haring LGBTQ Los Angeles parenting Takashi Murakami The Broad C.J.’s Urban Hike To The Broad  A life-size stuffed animal giraffe (Yes, he still wants this. No, he’s not getting it.) The American Girl Doll Bitty Baby with red hair and green eyes to match his (He might be getting this.) A full size, real life arcade claw machine filled with prizes (He says he’s checked around and it’s only $150 installed. I do not believe him. I do not know who he checked with.) A crop top (We’ve explained countless times that crop tops are allowed if worn over a long layering tank. He is not thrilled with layering in this instance.) Jeggings with lots of rips in them (I couldn’t find his size all ripped up. He’ll have to settle for a deconstructed wash.) Gogo boots (Because of course.) Ballet flats with sparkles and jewels. NOT BORING ONES! (I hope the ones I got are FLASHY enough for him.) 30th Anniversary Strawberry Shortcake (“I like everything ‘old school’.” – C.J.) A remote control car that his Monster High dolls can ride in (I hope the Monster High kids will ride in a Bratz make and model because that’s all I could find that fit the bill.) A hover board (No.) Magnetic earrings (Yes.) A real or toy white-on-white Range Rover (No.) Shopkins (Yes.) A porcupine (No.) The latest iPhone in rose gold (No.) A trip to Hawaii (No.)   Whatever you wished for this holiday season, I hope you get it. If the holidays aren’t a happy time for you, hang in there. Let’s all meet up again in 2016! xoxo, Lori      All Posts Christmas gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Monster High Orange County parenting C.J.’s Christmas Wish List 2015    When you’re in middle school, there’s nothing better than a good sleepover – and there’s nothing worse than your pesky, gender nonconforming little brother annoying you during a sleepover. Chase tries to plan a “Movie Night Sleepover” once every month or two. Last week, the event included two of his best buddies, a soak in the spa, pizza, a viewing of the movie Elf and video games. When we first discovered that C.J. was gender nonconforming, we’d hide all of the “girl stuff” in our house when Chase had a friend over. A year or two later we refused to hide the “girl stuff” because of what that was teaching our boys, so we would ask Chase if his friends who were coming over knew that C.J. was gender nonconforming – giving Chase the option of telling them beforehand. Now, we don’t bother with any of that. We just answer questions as they come from new guests in our house – surprisingly, few have any questions. The evening of Chase’s sleepover, his two friends arrived and changed into their trunks to head for the spa. They were putting their clothes in their backpacks and grabbing their towels when C.J. ran down the stairs wearing his favorite swimsuit – the one covered in rainbows and kittens — yelling “Boys! Here I come! I’m ready!” Chase’s friends chuckled and Chase looked at me annoyed and worried that I’d let C.J. join them in the spa – where C.J. likes to wear his huge pink snorkel goggles and play with his Little Mermaid doll. When I informed C.J. that he wasn’t going in the spa, but was going with me to pick up the pizzas instead, he was not thrilled. After they ate a massive amount of pizza, Chase and his friends changed into their loungewear to settle in and watch (talk loudly through) the movie. C.J. promptly ran upstairs and threw on the white, faux-minx robe that he inherited from Nana — which he likes to put on at night after his warm bath and after applying his leave-in conditioner and throwing his hair up in a French twist. C.J. came flowing into the room like an old-timey movie star in his robe carrying his monster high pillow. He was ready to claim his space on the couch and enjoy his favorite mango green tea in his Frozen cup. Chase’s friends gave the same chuckle and Chase gave the same annoyed looked. “C.J., you aren’t going to watch the movie with the guys,” I said as they all stared. “Why? It’s not inappropriate for me! I’ve already seen it!” he declared dramatically. Lucky for me (and Chase) I had just purchased Disney’s Inside Out as a surprise for C.J. to watch while we snuggled and ate popcorn in my bed upstairs. After the movie, Chase and his friends retreated to his room to play video games for a bit. Lots of yelling, banging around and falling ensued behind Chase’s closed door. Apparently that’s how middle school boys play video games. C.J. kept sneaking to Chase’s door and I caught him writing notes on his favorite fluorescent pink notepad and pushing them under the door. I could only imagine what he was writing. I told him to stop annoying Chase and his friends and knocked on Chase’s door to retrieve the notes. Even my imagination couldn’t have dreamed up the messages C.J. felt instinctively compelled to send to middle school boys to coax them into interacting with him. Adele lyrics.  “What did your friends think of C.J.’s rainbow kitty swimsuit, fancy bathrobe and Adele lyrics last night?” I asked Chase the next day. “Nothing. They have annoying little brothers and sisters, too,” Chase said. And that made me happy. C.J. wasn’t annoying because his gender expression is embarrassing to Chase. He’s annoying because all younger siblings are annoying to their older siblings. * * * We’ve been Upworthy-ed! Check it out here and share! * * * WordPress.com recently interviewed me about blogging and how my book deal came about. Read the interview here.  # # #        All Posts Chase Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ parenting sleepovers Upworthy Wordpress How To Annoy Your Brother During A Sleepover  “Do you have anything for me to do?” C.J. asked me in a moment of boredom. He knows that if he complains that he’s bored I’ll tell him that only boring people can be bored and he’d rather be a lot of things than a boring person. So, in honor of the Thanksgiving holiday, I had him make a list of the things he is thankful for from A to Z. He included some things that Chase should be thankful for and failed to mention that he was thankful for his mom or dad — proving that parenting is a thankless job. Things I Am Thankful For By: C.J., age 8 I am thankful for: Art and Andy Warhol Baby smells (but not bees) Cupcakes and Colorado Doctors and dolls Electricity Flowers (the video game Fallout 4 for Chase) Gogo boots and gummy bears Home (the song Hotline Bling for Chase) iPhones, because I want one Jeggings Knock knock jokes Late nights Mashed potatoes and makeup and me Night-lights Oranges Pinocchio and puzzles Queens (like the Queen of England but I like Princess Kate better) Rainbow Brite Sunsets and smiles Typing sounds mom makes on her computer and trampolines Unicorns Velvet Wishes and water and wigs Texting, because it has an x in it The letter y (It’s cute and I can’t think of anything else) Zebra print    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ parenting Thankful Thanksgiving The Things My Son Is Thankful For  I feel like I don’t always do a perfect job of explaining what it feels like to raise a gender nonconforming child (even though I’m usually pretty good with words). I recently ran across Emily Perl Kingsley’s essay titled “Welcome to Holland” and it describes my parenting experience perfectly. I am not raising a child with a disability (like Kingsley is/was), but my child does have unique needs and his life — our life — looks much different than what I envisioned when the ultrasound technician told me that he was boy. I wouldn’t change it for the world, but it took me some time to adjust. WELCOME TO HOLLAND by  Emily Perl Kingsley I am often asked to describe the experience of raising a child with a disability – to try to help people who have not shared that unique experience to understand it, to imagine how it would feel. It’s like this… When you’re going to have a baby, it’s like planning a fabulous vacation trip – to Italy. You buy a bunch of guide books and make your wonderful plans. The Coliseum. The Michelangelo David. The gondolas in Venice. You may learn some handy phrases in Italian. It’s all very exciting. After months of eager anticipation, the day finally arrives. You pack your bags and off you go. Several hours later, the plane lands. The stewardess comes in and says, “Welcome to Holland.” “Holland?!?” you say. “What do you mean Holland?? I signed up for Italy! I’m supposed to be in Italy. All my life I’ve dreamed of going to Italy.” But there’s been a change in the flight plan. They’ve landed in Holland and there you must stay. The important thing is that they haven’t taken you to a horrible, disgusting, filthy place, full of pestilence, famine and disease. It’s just a different place. So you must go out and buy new guide books. And you must learn a whole new language. And you will meet a whole new group of people you would never have met. It’s just a different place. It’s slower-paced than Italy, less flashy than Italy. But after you’ve been there for a while and you catch your breath, you look around…. and you begin to notice that Holland has windmills….and Holland has tulips. Holland even has Rembrandts. But everyone you know is busy coming and going from Italy… and they’re all bragging about what a wonderful time they had there. And for the rest of your life, you will say “Yes, that’s where I was supposed to go. That’s what I had planned.” And the pain of that will never, ever, ever, ever go away… because the loss of that dream is a very very significant loss. But… if you spend your life mourning the fact that you didn’t get to Italy, you may never be free to enjoy the very special, the very lovely things … about Holland.    All Posts Emily Perl Kingsley Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Orange County parenting transgender Welcome To Holland What It Feels Like To Raise A Gender Nonconforming Child  Halloween is a time when Matt and I are reminded of how much we’ve evolved as parents. From three-year-old C.J. wanting to be Snow White and us convincing him to be a skeleton to now – when I steam his dress and watch in awe as he applies makeup using skills he’s acquired watching countless tutorials on YouTube. Our boy is growing and maturing. The past few months he’s been drawn to mid-century design, vintage pinup fashion and 1950’s culture. So, when he saw a 1950’s car hop girl costume, his annual costume hunt quickly came to an end. Of course, because C.J. has to use his creativity and love for all things creepy and quirky whenever he can, his waitress has a backstory. She was murdered with a pair of pink fuzzy dice while delivering an order. Cue the excuse posthumous makeup. Today, Yahoo! Parenting is running a slideshow of C.J.’s Halloween costumes over the years with my commentary about our evolution as parents of a differently gendered child. Check it out! (And, never, ever read the comments.)           All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Halloween LGBTQ parenting Yahoo! Yahoo! Parenting What I’ve Learned From Letting My Son Dress Up As A Girl For Halloween  This afternoon was very special and one I’ll never forget. At the 2015 PFLAG National Convention Awards Luncheon, I enjoyed lunch with my husband Matt, PFLAG Executive Director Jody Huckaby, Caitlyn Jenner’s sister Pam Mettler, Betty DeGeneres and others. Then, I was awarded the PFLAG Flag Bearer Award.  The PFLAG Flag Bearer Award honors outstanding LGBTQ advocacy outside of the PFLAG framework and acknowledges the recipient’s accomplishments and lasting contributions to the safety and/or equality of our LGBTQ children, family and friends.  Following is my acceptance speech. I hope you’ll read it and understand how important PFLAG is to me and how thankful I am to be the 2015 PFLAG Flag Bearer.  Days after my brother came out 23 years ago, my aunt sent my mom a packet of literature from an organization called PFLAG. On top of the photocopies was a note that read, “When you are ready, I think you should check out PFLAG.” My mom wasn’t ready, so I went by myself. And I fell in love with PFLAG, because at that time, they were the only group of people to tell me that there was nothing wrong with having a gay brother. Five years ago when my youngest son started showing signs of being transgender or gender nonconforming, I knew where I needed to go to feel love, acceptance and support. I went back to PFLAG. PFLAG is the most supportive support group I’ve ever seen; it’s good for my soul; it’s what church should feel like. On my blog, in my book and when I speak, I tell friends, families, allies and members of the LGBTQ community, if you don’t know where to go, go to PFLAG. PFLAG also taught me that one mom can make a difference. I used to say “I’m just a mom.” After learning about PFLAG founder Jeanne Manford, I started leaving off the just. I’m not just a mom. I’m a mom. And as Jeanne showed us being a mom is a very powerful thing. Moms can be fierce advocates and world changers. Thank you PFLAG, I value this recognition more than you will ever know. And thank you to my amazing husband Matt I couldn’t have a better partner in life or on this unique parenting journey. You prove that dads are pretty cool too.     All Posts Betty DeGeneres Caitlyn Jenner Gender gender nonconforming LGBTQ Pam Mettler PFLAG PFLAG Mom transgender So Proud: PFLAG Flag Bearer Award  Following are highlights from our month on Instagram. Click here for all of the months’ pictures, thoughts and happenings. If you’re on Instagram, be sure to follow me.  “You’re a boy!” “Baby!” “Pink is for girls only!” “Loser!” “You suck!” “You’re not a girl!” “You can’t be my son if you’re gay!” I’m spending the day cleaning and came across a “Drag Book” that CJ made. This page was it. People are saying all of those things to the drag queen. My heart sank when I read the page. It continues to sink. CJ is such a happy and totally loved kid. But he knows exactly what some people think of and say to drag queens. And to gender expansive people. I wish he didn’t know. I wish that wasn’t a page in his book. But it is.   Matt: It’s a passport, not a look book.   “Shall we make a new rule of life…always to try to be a little kinder than is necessary?…It’s not enough to be kind. One should be kinder than needed…we carry with us, as human beings, not just the capacity to be kind, but the very choice of kindness…if every single person made it a rule that wherever you are, whenever you can, you will try to act a little kinder than is necessary – the world really would be a better place.” – Wonder, by RJ Palacio. (CJ and I are going on a date tonight to see the movie Wonder.)   The sister in the book Wonder says this about her parents and her brother. When I read it I immediately thought “I bet that’s how Chase feels about CJ.” I wouldn’t blame him. I mean, It’s true. We don’t tell CJ he’s normal or average. But I guess we do try to make him believe it as much as possible. We are stuck in this strange place of not wanting our kids to feel different…but not wanting them to feel normal/average either. Maybe it’s us. Maybe “normal” and “average” have negative connotations to us. And “different” has a negative connotation for everyone else.   Me: Can I have your lashes, please? My son: Nope.   He’s been on a baking kick lately and doesn’t want my help. He wants to do it all by himself. I told him that maybe he shouldn’t use my oven mitts that contain obscenities. He says that the oven mitt applies to the things he cooks just as much as to what I cook. Who’s going to argue with that kind of confidence in the kitchen? (Oven mitt creds: @blue_q)   Killing Crazy Hair Day since 2010.   CJ hustled people into buying custom rainbow loom bracelets at Thanksgiving yesterday. He pocketed $10 and donated $20 to the LA Food Bank. “I hope those hungry people don’t starve to death before my $20 gets there to buy them food!” — CJ, age 10, Thanksgiving 2017.   There’s no better example of how different my sons are. Or of how I use threatening as a parenting technique.    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Month In Review Orange County parenting Our Month in Review: November 2017    Parents often ask me how they can tell if their child is transgender versus gender nonconforming and if they should be transitioning him/her. Before I reply, I always clarify that I’m not a certified expert on gender or when to or not to support/encourage/allow a child to transition. I’m merely self-taught and have personal experience. The only thing I’m an expert on is my child — and most days he does a thing or two that makes me question even that. When people ask me about the state of their child’s gender identity, I reply with a question. “What does your mom gut tell you?” (Or dad gut or primary caregiver gut, I don’t discriminate when it comes to questions of the gut.) There’s trusting your gut and the there’s trusting your mom gut. My mom gut feels stronger and is correct more often than my regular gut. Like it is more accurate because it’s an invisible nerve that is tethered to my child and feels and knows things about him that no other person could feel or know. My mom gut says my child is not transgender and not currently in need of transition. I’ve considered very, very seriously at least three times during his life that C.J. is transgender (and I’ve mildly contemplated it during fleeting moments on hundreds of days). The first time was when he was four and for a few months was pretty adamant that he was going to be a woman when he grew up. The second time was when he was six and asked us to call him by a girl’s name and use female pronouns. The third time was not so long ago when he watched one of his friends transition socially from male to female and said that maybe he should transition too. Over the last four years, some professionals have told us that C.J. is transgender and that we should help him transition socially. But, we never have. Because my mom gut said it wasn’t the right decision. I’m glad I didn’t. Sometimes transitioning is the answer and sometimes it’s not. Sometimes there is no answer. And, sometimes you just keep on living in the middle of the gender spectrum because that is where your child is most happy and healthy. My son no longer wants to be a woman when he grows up, like he did when he was four. He didn’t feel comfortable during those days when he was six and we called him Rebecca and used female pronouns. And, after watching his friend transition he declared that he couldn’t imagine being a girl every day. So, he continues to identify as gender nonconforming; just as he has since he was old enough to identify as anything and despite how much I’d rather him use the term gender creative (I’m a sucker for positive connotations). His gender isn’t up to me. It’s up to him. On this unique parenting journey, I believe that:  If your heart beats wholeheartedly, lovingly and accepting-ly for a child; If you don’t have religion or the fear of what other people will think clouding your judgment; and If you would love your child the same if they were cisgender, transgender or gender nonconforming.  Then you should go with your gut. If you can’t quite tell what your gut thinks, but your child is happy, healthy and thriving, give it some time. If your child is consistently insistent that their sex and gender don’t match up or shows signs of distress (like depression, anxiety, behavior issues, self harm, self mutilation, etc.) seek out help from professionals. I’d start with a gender therapist. Eight years into parenting a differently gendered child, have I totally and completely ruled out that my child is transgender? Absolutely not. C.J. has taught me to get comfortable living in uncertainty. More importantly, he’s taught me that you should feel confident listening and trusting your mom gut (dad gut/primary caregiver gut), so long as your heart is in the right place.        All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ parenting transgender Trust Your Mom Gut    Here’s where I’ll be this fall. I’d love to meet you! Cal State Fullerton: Thinking Queer Series Thursday, September 24, 7 p.m. Fullerton, California The Cal State Fullerton LGBTQ Resource Center welcomes students, staff and the local community to the first installment of its 2015-16 “Thinking Queer” series featuring Lori Duron, author of Raising My Rainbow: Adventures in Raising a Fabulous, Gender Creative Son. The event will be held in the Titan Student Union Gabrielino. Click here for the details. * * * OCEC School Compliance Taskforce: Evening With Authors  Thursday, October 22, 7 p.m. Irvine, California You’re invited to the Third Annual Equality in Education Awards event hosted by the Orange County Equality Coalition’s School Compliance Taskforce. This year’s event is an Evening With Authors and will feature readings from:  Lori Duron, Raising My Rainbow: Adventures in Raising a Fabulous, Gender Creative Son. Jessica Herthel, I Am Jazz Karyl Ketchum, Norms And Other Violences Colin Stewart, From Wrongs To Gay Rights  Tickets start at $10 and include a gourmet coffee bar, wine and cheese. Click here for more info. * * * 2015 PFLAG National Convention: We Are The Change October 16-18 Nashville, TN I’ve never been to Nashville, y’all! What better time to pay the city a visit than for the PFLAG National Convention? Will you be there? What should I do while I’m in town? Click here for details. * * * And the winner is…. The winner of last week’s Pink Truck Designs giveaway is none other than Thomas, a third grader from Orlando who sounds very much like C.J. Thomas, have your adult email your email address and postal address to RaisingMyRainbow@gmail.com so that we can coordinate getting the prize to you. Thanks to all who entered and to Pink Truck Designs for the awesome shirts! # # #    All Posts Cal State Fullerton OCEC PFLAG Pink Truck Designs School Compliance Taskforce Fall Appearances and Speaking Engagements  C.J. is officially a third grader. So far he does not like third grade as much as second grade because they don’t do as many crafts and when they do crafts “they are boring-er crafts.” He also misses his second grade teacher Mrs. D. On the upside, he has made a new friend named Ellie who likes C.J. because his hair “reminds her of fried chicken.” So there’s that. Here are the other things that C.J. has been digging lately. Juicy Boots – When he feels like the day or event calls for something a little flashier than his standard TOMS, C.J. busts out his new Juicy Couture Boots and compliments abound much to his delight. The boots feature purple velvety, quilted hearts and glitter laces. I wish they were available in my size. We found these gems at Kohl’s. Dork Diaries – A reluctant reader, C.J. has found something that he enjoys reading more than People and Us. I don’t want to jinx anything, but The Dork Diary Series by Rachel Renée Russell may just be making a reader out of my son — and he’s proud to report that so far this school year none of his peers have teased him for reading “a girl’s book.” Other reads he’s enjoyed? The Lotus Lane series and Smile, Sisters and Drama by Raina Telgemeier. Screaming Lady Backpack – I found this at Nordstrom Rack (Nordstrom Rack is one of my favorite things) and it just screamed C.J. See what I did there? It is made by Volcom, but C.J. calls it his “Screaming Lady Backpack” and thinks it’s “scary hilarious.” HGTV – C.J. has officially ditched the Food Network for HGTV. Turn on Disney Channel or Nickelodeon and he’ll complain; turn on HGTV and he’ll sit down to give you his opinions. He prefers any show featuring a tiny house and also House Hunters, Flip or Flop and Fixer Upper. Fixer Upper is my favorite; I want to go on a double date with Joanna and Chip right after they give my house a makeover. Pink Truck Designs – C.J.’s favorite shirt of the moment is by Pink Truck Designs and features a police cruiser just like his dad drives, only in pink (C.J.’s favorite color). C.J. says if he were a police officer he would want a pink cruiser (but he doesn’t want to be a police officer because he wants to be an artist, he wants you to know). Pink Truck Designs is a clothing line for all ages created by a mom whose daughters love bulldozers and snowplows. Their designs are inspired by the notion that it’s not just a boy thing or a girl thing — it’s a kid thing! GIVEAWAY – Pink Truck Designs has been gracious enough to gift one t-shirt to a lucky reader of mine. To enter, visit their website and decide what t-shirt you want. Leave the product name and size in the comments below. A winner will be announced at some point on Friday (9/18/15), so be sure to enter by midnight on Thursday (9/17/15). Good luck! The winner has been announced! It is none other than Thomas, a third grader from Orlando who sounds very much like C.J. (See his comment below.) Thanks to all who entered and to Pink Truck Designs for the awesome shirts!    All Posts Back to School Dork Diaries Fixer Upper gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Giveaway HGTV Juicy Couture Kohl's LGBTQ Pink Truck Designs Volcom C.J.’s Favorite Things: 3rd Grade Edition (GIVEAWAY!)   I met award-winning musician Tom Goss when he asked our family to appear in the music video for his song “Illuminate The Dark” – a song about the devastating effects of negatively judging people based on looks and before knowing anything about them. My sons fell in love with Goss instantly because he sings, plays guitar and can do flips on a trampoline. I fell in love with Goss because of his voice, his LGBTQ advocacy work and because he overflows with kindness. When he allowed me a sneak peak of the music video for his new song “Breath & Sound,” its beauty, simplicity and powerful message held me captive. “Breath & Sound” illustrates through lyrical dance that the act of falling in love and the cadence of a relationship is the same for all couples, regardless of sexual orientation, gender or color. I recently sat down with Goss to talk about “Breath & Sound” for HuffPost Gay Voices. Me: With the Supreme Court’s June ruling in favor of marriage equality, the timing couldn’t be better for this video’s release, don’t you think? Tom Goss: Yes! It’s amazing to see how this country has grown and evolved in terms of its acceptance of all kinds of love. We are experiencing a momentous time; but that’s not to say the work is done. We have to continue to have an open dialogue to live harmoniously; I hope that my music and videos like this one encourage that dialogue. Me: What do you hope the LGBTQ community will feel when they watch this video? Tom: I want them to feel like I’m telling their story. I want them to be moved. That’s why I’m doing this. There isn’t enough LGBTQ content being produced. Historically, people have been afraid to tell these stories – but I’m not. I will always use my voice to help tell the stories of those who cannot. Me: What do you hope people outside of the LGBTQ community feel when they watch it? Tom: I want them to understand the boundlessness of love. There’s a reason the first verse focuses on the straight couple alone — that’s what they are used to seeing. I want straight people to be drawn into a familiar story, one they understand and relate to. Once there, I want to show them that this exact same story is being lived by the LGBTQ community. As a gay man, I don’t want special privilege. I just want to love – passionately, fearlessly and completely. Me: How did you come up with the initial concept for this video? Tom: I’ve been dreaming about this video for years. As soon as we recorded the song I knew I wanted to shoot a lyrical dance because I’m fascinated by movement and even more so by collaborative projects. About six months ago I was explaining my vision to director Michael Serrato (Big Gay Sketch Show; Willam Belli and Violet Chachki music videos; and Neil’s Puppet Dreams). I told him about my big, complex, beautiful — but ultimately flawed idea — and he started getting as excited as I was and sharing ideas of his own. His ideas solved the problems I was having in the story and it became clear that it was something that we could accomplish together. Me: The dance is such a beautiful metaphor for the flow of a relationship… Tom: If you think about it, all relationships are really a kind of dance. We want to be close to somebody, but we’re afraid to let them too close. We come together, we push each other away. We chose the movements to highlight that experience. This feeling isn’t confined to one specific kind of relationship; it doesn’t understand gender or sexual orientation. The dance of attraction and love is a universal one. The dance is the same regardless of the dancers. Me: At first watch, the video looks simple and effortless, but then I got to thinking about the choreography, editing and about how sometimes making something seem simple is very hard work. What was the hardest part about making the video? Tom: The hardest part wasn’t on my shoulders, but on the dancers’. It was inspiring to see how connected they became to each other throughout shooting. Everyone involved believed in the concept, the song and its potential to spur something beautiful. They committed to me, Michael and each other — helping build something greater than the sum of its parts. Me: What other great projects are you working on? Tom: I’m in pre-production on a video addressing LGBTQ youth and suicide prevention. I’m extremely excited about the team we are building for this project. I believe it has the potential to reach a lot of people. More than anything, I want to help make the world a better place. I think this video will do just that.     All Posts Breath & Sound Huffington Post HuffPost Gay Voices Michael Serrato Tom Goss Music Video Exclusive: Tom Goss’s Breath and Sound  A while back I recognized a major flaw in my parenting. In letting C.J explore gender, I forgot to set the same boundaries for my feminine son that I would have set for a female child — especially when it comes to clothing, accessories and outward appearance. I wrote about this revelation for Yahoo! Parenting. I hope you’ll read it!    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ parenting Yahoo! Yahoo! Parenting Telling My Son His Skirts Were Too Short  “Mom, how come I never get invited to sleepovers?” my first grader asked from the backseat as we drove home from school one day last year. “Hannah had one and then Emma had one and now Olivia is having one and I never get invited.” My heart sank a little, because I always knew this line of questioning would come someday, and I also knew the chances of my child being invited to a sleepover were slim to none. My son’s friends have always been girls, and co-ed sleepovers for kids are typically frowned upon by society — or at least by the conservative, image-conscious part of South Orange County in which we live. As my eight-year-old son C.J. explains it, he’s a boy who only likes girl things and wants to be treated like a girl. He says he’s not transgender, and self-identifies as “gender nonconforming.” My husband and I think he’s gender courageous. As we navigate this unique parenting journey, we don’t always have quick answers to C.J.’s questions. Is it okay for boys and girls to have sleepovers together?… Click here to read the rest of this blog post, which is featured on Yahoo! Parenting.     All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Grace LGBTQ Orange County parenting raising a gay child sleepovers transgender Yahoo! Yahoo! Parenting Should I Let My Gender-Creative Son Have Co-Ed Sleepovers?  “Transgender and gender nonconforming people (think Caitlyn Jenner or Ruby Rose) are gaining more visibility as they find the courage to come out and live publicly as the most authentic versions of themselves. Around his third birthday, my son started showing signs of gender nonconformity — wearing a dress, growing his hair out and only playing with dolls while insisting he was boy and preferring masculine pronouns. My husband and I have been committed to showing our son positive examples of differently gendered people in literature. We’ve read the following books countless times and always encourage an open dialogue about what it means to be a boy, a girl, a human. More importantly, we use these books to teach about love, acceptance, equality, empathy, and the beauty of diversity. Read these books to your child to help them better understand their gender identity and be a better friend to the boy who has long hair and wears a skirt or the girl with the short spiked hair who only wears pants….” Click here to learn the eight books I recommend to start with when teaching kids about the fluidity of gender and the importance of acceptance. I compiled this list for Brightly, a fantastic online resource aimed at making it easier and a lot more fun for parents to raise children who love to read. Have a book to add to the list? Leave a comment here or on ReadBrightly.com.    All Posts books Brightly bullying Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ parenting transgender 8 Books That Teach Kids About the Fluidity of Gender and the Importance of Acceptance  When Nana Grab Bags died on Memorial Day, we immediately started planning her Celebration of Life, mostly because it felt better to be actively doing something as opposed to sitting immobilized unable to do anything. And those were our only two options. As we began planning, Uncle Michael, Matt and I explained the event’s significance to C.J. and Chase. “What are we going to wear to the Celebration of Life?” C.J. asked immediately, because even when grieving he is concerned about fashion. “I’m wearing a tie,” said Chase, who loves any excuse to wear a tie. “I want to be a girl at Nana’s Celebration of Life. I want to wear a dress. That’s how Nana would want me,” he declared and asked if we could go shopping. I promised him we would. “Will everyone at the Celebration of Life know that I’m gender nonconforming?” he asked. “No.”  I waited for the usual self-editing and deep consideration about his gender expression around new people to begin. “I don’t care,” he said. “I’m wearing a dress.” “That sounds good,” we said. He could have said he was going to dress up like a dragon or be a dandelion and we would have said it sounded good — because a sudden death of a loved one puts things into perspective (and because the Celebration of Life would be casual, loving and accepting, like Nana was). Every day, C.J. pressured me to take him shopping for a new dress and every day I told him that we needed to wait until Uncle Michael got back in town. I was physically and emotionally spent and didn’t feel well-equipped to help my son pick out a dress for his grandmother’s funeral. I had spent loads of energy getting the funeral planned and her visit site properly cared for. I needed some back up, some support and in this case I knew my brother was the person I needed most. When Uncle Michael arrived on Thursday, our first stop was Target. You’d think that for our mother’s funeral we’d hit a higher end store, maybe even Nordstrom. But we all felt too numb for Nordstrom – which is saying a lot. And, besides, Target was Nana’s favorite store. C.J. led us to the “girls’ section” and started purposefully working the aisles and holding out fabrics he fancied. Uncle Michael and I did the same. The three of us called out to each other when a dress caught our eye and held it up for comments and opinions. Uncle Michael and I have similar tastes and found a few options that we thought were perfect. C.J. nixed them all. Uncle Michael looked at me shocked and flabbergasted that someone would argue with his good taste (and it is good, after all he helped me win “Best Dressed” in high school). C.J. decided on a cream linen dress with delicate eyelet detail, a dainty navy blue cardigan and a headband with blue and yellow flowers adorning it. He could not be swayed. “This has to be his decision, this is how he wants to send off Nana,” I told my brother. “But, there are several better dresses…” he started. “Trust me, I know.” The next two days, C.J. kept reminding us that he was going to be a girl and wear a dress at Nana’s Celebration of Life. We said we knew and thought it was perfect. If that’s how he felt Nana would want him, then that’s exactly what he should do. He never again asked about the strangers who we would welcome into our home and what their reactions to a boy in a dress might be. He was unwavering in his decision and he didn’t care what other people thought. He was committed to making the event about him and his Nana. That made me proud. Because, that is what memorializing a person and the relationship you had with them is all about. “Pa, I’m going to be a girl at Nana’s Celebration of Life,” he said to my dad the night before the service. He looked his grandfather right in the eyes and stood firm. If anybody in our family was going to have a reaction it would be Pa. I nervously held my breath. “That is exactly how Nana would want you and that’s what you should do. It’s about you and Nana and she loved you so much,” Pa said as he wrapped C.J. in a hug. I teared up (because this death has turned me into a crier and) because it’s the first time I’d heard my father be that accepting and empowering of C.J. The day of the Celebration of Life, C.J. made sure I steamed his dress, like I did mine, and flat ironed his hair, like I did mine. He spritzed on some Chanel Coco perfume and applied his favorite lip gloss. After he put on his cream dress, navy cardi and flowered headband, I surprised him by presenting him with a strand of Nana’s pearls to wear. He greeted people at the door as they arrived at our house for the Celebration of Life. We introduced him to people from my parents’ church and to their friends who had never met him before. “This is our youngest son, C.J.,” we’d say. “It’s nice to finally meet you,” they’d say. “Your Nana told us so much about you.” That afternoon, my son was not one bit worried about what perfect strangers would think about him wearing a dress. He listened to those strangers tell him that his Nana loved him very much and that she told everyone all about him. He was unabashed and unashamed. He honored Nana and their special relationship beautifully. I imagined her looking down on him. “That’s my beautiful boy! You look so pretty! I love your dress!” she’d say, like she always did.    All Posts Celebration of Life Funeral Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Nana Nana Grab Bags parenting Target My Son’s Funeral Dress  During my travels around the nation speaking to different groups and organizations, I fell in love with a school in Greenfield, Massachusetts. The Center School is a progressive, independent day school that offers rigorous education for deep thinkers and creative spirits. Seriously, everything about the school and its community of faculty, staff, students and parents have me enraptured and wishing that C.J. could go to The Center School or a school like it. The school has become a safe haven for gender creative kiddos. As of next year, the school will have four transgender and two gender non-conforming students and a gender creative staff member. How cool is that? Even cooler? They just launched a Raising Rainbows Scholarship in my honor.  The Center School’s Raising Rainbows scholarship, established in 2015, provides tuition support for Center School students who are transgender, gender nonconforming, gender creative, or who have family members who are.   The scholarship was inspired by a beautiful, brave Center School transgender student who transitioned when she was in kindergarten. In addition the initiators of this fund recognize the wonderful Lori Duron and the loving story of her gender creative son, as added inspiration.   Contributions to this fund are fully tax deductible and support students’ academic and social journey at The Center School, which celebrates each child’s unique path in the world. Consider giving and spreading the word. * * *  This John Oliver video is by far my favorite thing on the interwebs this week. It’s well-worth 15 minutes of your time — or even a few minutes because he pretty much nails it from start to finish. (Thanks to Leslie for tipping me off to this one.) “Some transgender people do undergo hormone therapy or sexual reassignment surgery as part of their transition; some do not. And interestingly, their decision on this matter is, medically speaking, none of your f*cking business,” John Oliver said on HBO’s Last Week Tonight, in re media questioning of transgender interview guests’ body parts. Singled out for shaming: Barbara Walters, Wendy Williams, Katie Couric, Larry King, etc. Oliver’s note to media: “If you’re still wondering, ‘What do I call a transgender person, it’s so confusing,’ actually it’s pretty simple – call them whatever they want to be called.”  * * *  MTV’s True Life series is currently casting for its next season. One episode is titled “I Am GenderQueer” and one is titled “I Have A Transgender Parent.” If either of these topics relate to your life or you know someone who would be perfect for the casting. Please email truelife@punchedinthehead.com.  * * *  Grief is a real bitch. Thanks for the comments, notes, thoughts and prayers as we adjust to life without Nana Grab Bags. Every days sucks a little less. xoxo, Lori    All Posts John Oliver MTV Raising Rainbows Scholarship The Center School True Life Friday Fodder: Raising Rainbows Scholarship  Two weeks and one day ago, I talked to my mom (C.J.’s Nana Grab Bags) on the phone a little before dinnertime. I called her to announce that C.J. had finally lost the first of his top two front teeth. That tooth had hung on for way too long and she cheered when she heard the news. Little life victories are meant to be celebrated with Nanas. A few hours later, Nana passed away and I spent Memorial Day painfully and tearfully recalling every memory of my mother that I could conjure up, afraid that they would perish with her. I would never wish a long painful death on anyone, but the shock of a sudden and unexpected death seems unfair too. I guess there’s no perfect way to die. As my brother Michael and I left our mom for the last time, I leaned over her, kissed her forehead and whispered. “I love you, mom. You are the best.” It was the first time she didn’t refute my praise. She didn’t say, “oh, no I’m not.” I wanted her to brush off my compliment. I wanted her to open her eyes. I wanted her heart to beat and her lungs to breathe and for the previous hours to have been a sick joke the universe would someday apologize for thinking was funny. If I was being tested, I wanted to pass the test and get my mother back. We left the hospital and my body trembled all the way home; knowing that I would walk through the door and rip Chase and C.J.’s hearts in half quickly and cruelly. As Michael, Matt and I told them that Nana’s body had stopped working, I looked into their eyes and watched a jarring life moment confuse them. I watched their sense of reality go into a dizzying spiral. They had seen Nana three days earlier. We ate Chinese food and saw Annie at the local performing arts center. She was happy and smiling in a blue sequined top and her favorite perfume. For a second, Chase thought we were kidding and C.J. struggled to catch up. And, then it started to sink in. “Can we see her again and say goodbye?” they asked. “I’m so sorry, but you can’t,” we said. “Who’s going to play dress up with me and let me do their makeup and do crafts with me?” C.J. cried. “We all do those things with you and we will never stop,” we promised. “It’s not the same. It’s not Nana,” he said. The rest of that day and the next passed, though I have little recollection. We began planning Nana’s Celebration of Life and explained the event’s significance to C.J. and Chase. “What are we going to wear to the Celebration of Life?” C.J. asked immediately, because even when grieving he is concerned about fashion. “I’m wearing a tie,” said Chase, who loves any excuse to wear a tie. “I want to be a girl at Nana’s Celebration of Life. I want to wear a dress. That’s how Nana would want me,” he declared and asked if we could go shopping. I promised him we would. “Will everyone at the Celebration of Life know that I’m gender nonconforming?” he asked. “No.”  I waited for the usual self-editing and deep consideration about his gender expression around new people to begin. “I don’t care,” he said. “I’m wearing a dress.” And, so we went shopping for a dress for my son to wear to my mother’s funeral. To be continued…    All Posts Death Family Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Nana Nana Grab Bags RIP Rest In The Most Fabulous Peace, Nana  There’s no school this week for C.J. and Chase due to the Thanksgiving holiday. We haven’t seen Chase in two days because he’s now a high schooler who is too cool for us and has a very busy social life. Never fear, C.J. has been here asking for things to do to pass the time. So, I kept with our annual tradition of having him list the things he’s thankful for from A to Z. Things I Am Thankful For By: C.J., age 10 I am thankful for: Apples Bob the Drag Queen and baby powder C.J. (me) and Chapstick and cheerleading Drag queens and Ding Dong cupcakes and the dentist Equality Family and friends Good days and gymnastics Helping others Imaginations Jewelry Knowledge Laughing Makeup Nice people Opening presents Pride and pride parades and pride parties Q. I’m literally not thankful for anything that starts with a Q. RuPaul and rainbows Sleeping and sewing Thai food and time at the beach Unity and unicorns Very fun things Watching my brother play football Xoxo. That means hugs and kisses, FYI. Yelling in a good way Zipining in Colorado      All Posts Gay pride gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Thanksgiving The Things My Son Is Thankful For  I recently had the honor of working with PFLAG on their new publication titled Our Trans Loved Ones. It’s an amazing resource for parents, families and friends of people who are transgender and gender expansive. Our Trans Loved Ones is free and includes a wealth of information, first-person stories, expert input and more. Download it, love it and share it. ‪#‎OurTransLovedOnes    All Posts Gender gender creative gender expansive gender nonconforming PFLAG resources trans transgender Amazing Resource for People Who Are Transgender or Gender Expansive and Their Loved Ones  Photo Creds: Bestie Best Kelly I still remember the day when I sat in my 7-year-old son’s bedroom and told him that his 9-year-old friend Samuel was no longer a boy, but was now a girl named Sophia. My son, C.J., didn’t say much at first. Which is how most people react when they hear news that they weren’t expecting. Months later, I sat in the same spot and told him that his 8-year-old friend Riley was no longer a boy, but was now a girl named Anna….. Read the rest of my post over at Yahoo! Parenting.    All Posts Gender gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ transgender Yahoo! Parenting How I Told My Son His Friends Are Transgender  Happy Mother’s Day to all of you moms and female primary caregiver adults out there!!  Just in time for the holiday, C.J. has written instructions for how to drive your mom crazy. xoxo, Lori     All Posts C.J. Mother's Day “How To Drive Your Mom Crazy,” By C.J.  Photo Creds: ABC News Matt and I decided to watch the Bruce Jenner’s 20/20 interview with our sons. And, we’re so glad we did because it was really great, respectful and educational. We didn’t make a big announcement; we just turned on the television while they were in the room, like we often do. C.J. sat on the floor playing Lego Elves; Chase was in our over-sized chair playing his Nintendo 3DS. Born into a generation of multitaskers, they were each doing their own thing while listening to our thing. “Is he transgender?” they both asked as the show got underway. “We don’t know. Maybe he’ll tell us now,” I said. As Matt and I watched, the boys gave half of their attention to Bruce and half to themselves. During the interview, ABC showed a Saturday Night Live clip poking fun at Bruce’s gender expression. “Awww, that wasn’t nice!” Chase said, not looking up from his game. When Bruce’s sister was interviewed, she said she cried after Bruce first told her about his gender struggle. She said she didn’t understand at first. “Well you should understand it! It’s your brother! It’s your family!” C.J. yelled at the TV. “Sometimes people don’t understand, even family members and friends,” Matt explained. Diane Sawyer and Bruce both said that Bruce will emerge as “Her” – expressing more or entirely as female — when the time feels right. “I can’t wait to see her!” C.J. exclaimed giddily. “Yeah, why is he not a girl yet?” C.J. asked impatiently. “Because he’s taking his time,” Matt says. When the interview was almost over, C.J. looked up from his LEGOS and said very seriously… “I’m going to be a boy my whole life.” “Okay,” Matt and I said in unison. “But, you know if doesn’t matter to us if you are a boy or a girl. That we love you no matter what,” I said. “Yeah, yeah, I know,” he mumbled. Our unconditional, nonjudgmental, totally supportive love bores C.J. now. But, at least he knows it’s there for him. When the interview was over we paused the TV. “What are your final thoughts on that?” I asked both of the boys. “I wish he didn’t have to wait to transition until he’s so old,” Chase said. “I want a snack,” C.J. said. And, with that, out teaching moment came to an end.    All Posts 20/20 Diane Sawyer Gender Gender Stereotypes Grayson Bruce LGBTQ parenting transgender My Sons’ Reaction To Bruce Jenner  I’m lucky to have two kids who love each other, mostly get along, play well together and sometimes hold hands when no one is looking. Lately, their favorite way to pass time is to jump on our trampoline together. Even though C.J. would prefer to take turns performing mini choreographed gymnastics routines for each other, Chase more often than not convinces him to play “superheroes.” I’m not sure what all the game entails, but I do know that they each pick a superhero to portray. Chase is always Captain America and, because he is unfamiliar with mainstream superheroes, C.J. has made up his own. C.J. is Banana Man. Me: What are Banana Man’s superpowers? C.J.: I can shoot bubblegums out of my mouth. And if I touch stuff my sticker power is activated and whatever I touch gets covered with stickers. And I can turn things rainbow colored. And I can have a Super Jump. Me: What’s a Super Jump? C.J.: I jump really high and when I land on the ground people fall like they can’t walk in high heels. Me: What outfit does Banana Man wear? C.J.: It changes every day. But sometimes I only wear underwear while fighting bad guys because I can’t handle the pressure of picking out an outfit every day. Me: And who are these bad guys you fight? C.J.: Chase when he’s Captain America, that’s why it’s okay if I’m only in my underwear, because he’s seen me in my underwear before. Me: What does Banana Man like to eat? C.J.: Cookies with milk and bananas and donuts and pickles. Me: What does Banana Man hate to eat? C.J.: Chicken and French fries and tires. Me: Well, that makes sense. C.J.: Maybe I’ll pick out one outfit that Banana Man mostly wears so I don’t have to feel pressured picking out a new outfit every day. Can you hold on a minute? Me: Sure. And, then he returned as Banana Man… Banana Man!    All Posts Banana Man Brothers Chase gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes invisible friend Orange County parenting C.J. Is Banana Man  Photo Cred: Yahoo! Parenting via xxtayloralesanaxx/Instagram My heart is sad today for 16-year-old Taylor Alesana of Fallbrook, California. Taylor, a transgender high school student, committed suicide after being bullied and harassed at school.  “When you’re a kid, parents always tell you sticks and stones may break your bones but names will never hurt you,” Taylor said. “To me that’s not true. Words hurt, and words turn up to threats and threats turn up to physical violence.” Popular for her YouTube make-up tutorials, Taylor encouraged other transgender teens to protect themselves by reporting bullying to school administrators and law enforcement.  She had followed her own advice and was also seeking support at the North County LGBTQ Resource Center. The sadness in my heart shares space with anger. Taylor lived just one hour from my home; so, as a fellow Californian, I can tell you that the California Department of Education did nothing to help Taylor. California’s safe school laws are comprehensive and advanced in comparison to other states. California leads the nation in establishing laws to protect perceived and confirmed LGBTQ kids and, then, the state fails these kids miserably by not enforcing the laws. The California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity was created to investigate complaints of bullying and discrimination throughout California and enforce the state’s excellent safe school laws and education codes. BUT, the California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity has not investigated a single claim of discrimination filed by or on behalf of students across the state. The office’s failure to enforce anti-bullying laws has resulted in dangerous, system-wide ignorance and unaccountability in California’s schools. The Education Office of Equal Opportunity doesn’t even log or track appeals. The on-going systemic failure is detailed in the scathing 2013 California State Auditor’s Office’s report summarized here: https://www.bsa.ca.gov/reports/summary/2012-108 Read more about The California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity’s failures in a blog post I wrote following the suicide of 12-year-old Californian Ronin Shimizu in December. If you want to do something to help LGBTQ kids and their families in California, please email and/or phone State Superintendent Tom Torlakson’s office and let him know that ignoring the situation at California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity is dangerous and must stop. Please join me in demanding that California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity be restructured, appropriately resourced and that it become computerized now…before we lose one more young person. Torlakson can be reached at 916-319-0800 and EHughes@cde.ca.gov. If you or a young LGBTQ person you know is thinking about suicide, please call The Trevor Lifeline at 1-866-488-7386. For adults over the age of 24, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255.    All Posts #hernamewastaylor bullying California Deptartment of Education LGBTQ Taylor Alesana Tom Torlakson transgender Yahoo! Parenting Her Name Was Taylor  I wrote a blog post for this week, but instead of being published here, it’s published as an Op-Ed on Entertainment Tonight’s website. Check out the links below to have a read.  Photo Creds: etonline.com Op-Ed: Thank You, Angelina Jolie, For Celebrating Our Kids Who Are ‘Different’ “Different is good,” Angelina Jolie said Saturday night at the Kids’ Choice Awards. “Don’t fit in… don’t ever try to be less than what you are, and when someone tries to tell you that you are different, smile and hold your head up high and be proud.” As the mother of a child who is different, I can’t get enough of Angelina Jolie. Every time she publicly and proudly says or shows that it’s okay to be different, I am grateful….Click here to read the full piece.    All Posts Angelina Jolie bullying Entertainment Tonight Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes Kids Choice Awards LGBTQ parenting Shiloh Jolie-Pitt Op-Ed: Thank You, Angelina Jolie, For Celebrating Our Kids Who Are ‘Different’  Someone recently asked Matt if he thinks he’s too hard on C.J. and his brother at some moments and too easy on them at others. The line of questioning irritated me because Matt is an amazing father. The next day, Matt sent to me this beautiful letter for safe keeping for C.J. (Chase got his own letter.) Dear C.J., Your mom loves this quote and has had it above her desk for years. I’ve seen it there and read it so many times that now it’s one of my favorites, too. It makes me think of you. “Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness, that most frightens us. We ask ourselves, ‘Who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, fabulous?’ Actually, who are you not to be? You are a child of God.  Your playing small does not serve the world. There is nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won’t feel insecure around you. We are all meant to shine, as children do.”— Marianne Williamson I have said in many interviews over the past two years that the most important job I have as a father is to raise you and your brother to be respectful, responsible, courageous people.  I don’t care if you love males, females or people who identify as neither or all of the above. I don’t care what toys you play with or what colors you like.  I care that you respect yourself and others. That you are responsible for your own things and actions and the effects they potentially have on other people. I want you to act courageously, not cowardly. You don’t have to be a hero, but don’t make other people your victims or allow people to make you theirs. Always remember, being compassionate and understanding is just as important as being strong and decisive. You make me proud and I love watching you grow as the years keep flying by.  I’m inspired everyday by your creativeness, bravery and confidence. A lot of times, when I hear LGBTQ people talk about growing up, they say that their parents were mean to them.  I want you to always remember that I never, ever, do anything just to be mean to you or because I don’t love you or because I don’t approve of you.  I like you.  I love you. I approve of you.  I think you’re perfect. I’m sure you’ll find my parenting frustrating at times.  You may think my rules are too strict and unwavering.  I’m okay with that, because I’m a parent.  I’m trying to help you become the best person you can be.  I will push you and teach you and love you and support you. That’s my job.  I’m sure at times you will say that I’m too hard on you or that I hold you to higher standards than other people.  I’m alright with that too, because I do.  As a parent, it is harder to be tough and consistent than lenient and convenient. I’m constantly working my hardest to help you be your best. As you grow up, you will disappoint your mother and me by making poor choices.  That’s alright too.  That’s why it’s called growing up.  I just want you to grow from the times when you stumble.  I’ll always be right behind you to pick you up and point you in the right direction again.  That’s my job.  Your job is to learn from your mistakes.  You have to get back on the right path and let me hold your hand as you walk a little farther along. When you are an adult and leave our home, you will never leave my heart or my family.  By that time, I hope I will have prepared you to be an exceptional person with inspirational qualities.  I am so proud of the person you are becoming and the character you are already demonstrating.  Always be true to who you are.  Never doubt who you are.  Never. Life will be tough and unfair.  People will be jerks.  You may be judged and people may be condescending toward you.  Don’t let anyone make you play small.  Don’t ever let anyone prevent you from being your most honest, whole self.  Don’t shrink to make others feel more comfortable.  Your true personality and character are what make you the person I love. Your journey will be difficult and frustrating like many other young adults.  Always remember that when things get hard I will be right behind you pushing you to learn and be resilient. I will always love you and support you and I will always have your back, ALWAYS. Love, Your Dad    All Posts Dad fatherhood Gay gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Matt parenting raising a gay child Raising gay child Raising My Rainbow I Love You, Son  Hey Strangers! It’s been a while! C.J. had a case of pneumonia (bless his heart) that WOULD.  NOT.  GO.  AWAY.  Several trips to the hospital and several rounds of different medications and he finally kicked the thing right as Grandma and Grandpa Colorado arrived (bless their hearts) to watch the kids for a week while Matt and I vacationed in Panama (bless our hearts). So, that’s where I’ve been and, now, I’m back. Following are the things that have caught and held my attention recently. Enjoy!  More soon… * * * As many of you know, one of my badass besties is Sarah at NerdyApple.com. Her oldest child goes to school with a boy named Morgan who celebrated his 17th birthday one week ago by wearing a shrug, lace gloves and fashion belt to school. Well, the administrators at his school didn’t respond well (to put it mildly) and, now, Morgan and his family have inspired the #clothinghasnogender movement.  Read more here.  Morgan, if you or your mom read this, you should contact Sarah cause she’s awesome and her and her family will stand by you until the end. * * * Meet the New Generation of Gender-Creative Kids, TIME.com Lindsay Morris photographs a rural retreat where kids are free to be themselves. These pictures make me smile. * * * Transgender Students Learn To Navigate School Halls, NPR.org I love this piece written with such heart by a high schooler about her classmate and friend who is transgender. Bravo to the author, her friend and open-minded, open-hearted high school students everywhere. * * * ‘Sanctuary Palm Springs’ to create haven for LGBT youth, DesertSun.com A Palm Springs couple is set to open a foster home for LGBT youth. Nearly 20 percent of foster youth in their area identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender. They’ve found themselves homeless after coming out to family or being bullied at school. About 26 percent of LGBT youth say their biggest problems are not feeling accepted by family, trouble at school or bullying and a fear to be out, according to the Human Rights Campaign. “We’re calling this not a group home but an LGBT family home. Because many people, when they come out as LGBT, they lose their family,” the couple said. The home will operate as a nonprofit and provide basic necessities such as food, clothing and medical care, along with mentoring, career advice and life coaching, a range of artistic activities, therapy with local professionals and enough responsibilities to become self-sufficient. * * * It’s time to start thinking about summer camp!  If you have a transgender or gender nonconforming child, check out Camp Aranu’tiq.  If your family has LGBTQ parents, consider attending Harbor Camps LGBTQ Family Camp. Click here for more info on both camps. * * *    All Posts #clothinghasnogender bullying Camp Aranu'tiq Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Huffington Post LGBTQ Nerdy Apple Time transgender Friday Fodder: Here I Am! Edition  “Where are you going for your birthday party?” one of C.J.’s girl friends asked him while they were play-dating at our house the week before his birthday. “West Hollywood,” he said casually, as if every second-grader in Orange County knows what and where West Hollywood is. “What’s that?” she asked. “That’s where they have lots of gay people and people like me,” he explained. “I’m going to wear a skirt there and they won’t even laugh at me.” “Cool,” his friend said as she smiled and nodded, even though I could tell that she had no idea what he was talking about. Six months prior, C.J. decided that he wanted to have his birthday at a wig store. I thought for sure he’d change his mind, because he does that a lot. But, he repeatedly mentioned it and by November, I knew that I had to try to make it happen. So, I enlisted the help of my brother, Michael, who lives in West Hollywood, and gave him a list of things that C.J. wanted to do in celebration of his eighth birthday.  Go shopping for toys Go to lunch Try on wigs See the rainbow sidewalks (which I told him existed in West Hollywood) Eat pink cupcakes  On the morning of C.J.’s birthday party day, we woke up and drove 30 minutes to my best friend Marie’s house to pick up her and her two daughters (the dads stayed home to work). Her daughter Grace is four weeks older than C.J. and they are besties through and through. If you need proof, you can read their matching shirts that say “I heart my bestie.” Marie’s daughter Kate is one of Chase’s best friends despite her being three years older than he is. They share a love of bacon, Modern Family and making each other laugh. We took the kids to the Toys R Us near Marie’s house to check “go shopping for toys” off of C.J.’s birthday party to-do list. C.J. selected some Shopkins, a Monster High pen and a Ballerina marionette.  An hour later, we were in West Hollywood greeting Uncle Michael and six of his closest friends at The Abbey – which has twice been voted the best gay bar in the world and was Elizabeth Taylor’s favorite pub. Rest assured that at noon on a Saturday, the crowd was tame and family friendly. We were escorted to a secluded table on the patio and C.J. promptly handed out pink mardi gras beads to his guests (no flashing required). Because they were sitting across from me and next to each other, Uncle Michael helped C.J. decide what to eat. Imagine my surprise when C.J. ordered Nutella crepes for lunch. After lunch, the 13 of us (three straight females, six gay men and four children – for the sake of setting the scene) walked in parade fashion up Santa Monica Blvd. to the crosswalks painted rainbow. We crossed the street taking pictures all the way. Then, we turned around and crossed again. Then again. Then again. People took pictures of us taking pictures of ourselves.   We paraded back to our car and drove to the wig store of Uncle Michael’s choosing. Though they didn’t seem excited to see us rush into their store initially, the staff of three joined our party when they realized that we were celebrating a unique boy who likes wigs and falls more than just about anything else. Every member of the group chose one wig to try on. When C.J. fell in love with a fall that matched his one-of-a-kind hair color perfectly, I bought it for him and he wore it out of the store and the rest of the day.     At a neighboring toy and costume store, C.J. carefully deliberated which souvenir Oscar to award himself. Eventually, he bypassed the awards for “Best Diva” and “Drama Queen” for a win in the “Best Son” category. “Because don’t you think I’m a better son than diva and drama queen?” he asked me looking for reassurance. I agreed. Back at Uncle Michael’s place, we ate pink cupcakes, opened presents and sang along to popular Disney tunes that were blasting. C.J. fell asleep on the way home — as he always does after a long, fun day in West Hollywood. “That was the best birthday party! I’m going to tell everybody at school that they should have their birthday parties at West Hollywood,” C.J. said next day. West Hollywood, if you see an influx of children’s birthday parties in the coming months and years, remember who started the trend.   * * * A huge, heartfelt thank you to everyone who attended the West Hollywood Wig Out Birthday Spectacular and made the day beyond special for C.J. Your acceptance and love for our family is profound and it’s quietly letting our kids and their friends know that it’s okay to unabashedly be themselves.    All Posts Birthday Birthday Party gender creative gender nonconforming LGBTQ Monster High parenting The Abbey West Hollywood wigs West Hollywood Wig Out Birthday Spectacular  Chase started high school in August. Weeks before that, he joined the football team and began training. Our house quickly became a popular hangout spot for Chase and his new friends/teammates – which is what Matt and I have always wanted. (I certainly didn’t buy a Ping-Pong table, pool table and trampoline for my own enjoyment.) We’d rather have all the kids at our house than out who-knows-where doing who-knows-what. We order pizza, put out sodas and heat up the pool. We welcome anywhere from five to 20 teenagers into our home most Friday nights and often on Saturdays and Sundays, too. They are all great kids. They are really good at using their manners and cleaning up when I ask them to. All of Chase’s friends have taken to C.J. without hesitation. The guys who come over are impressed by the flips and tricks he can do on the trampoline. The girls who come over teach him cheers, do his makeup and talk with him about RuPaul’s Drag Race. C.J. trying to go unnoticed under the pool table. When Chase gets sick of having his little brother around, C.J. hides under the Ping-Pong table or pool table hoping to go unnoticed while still feeling like he’s part of the action. It works most of the time. All of these weeks we assumed the teenagers knew C.J. is a boy. After attending a Halloween party, Chase and a handful of his friends crashed in our living room. As their rides slowly started arriving to shuttle them home the next morning, the boys collected their things. (They never manage to take home all of their things. We officially have a “Lost and Found” by our front door.) One of Chase’s friends was holding the mask he’d worn to the party the night before and asked, “Does she want my mask?” to no one in particular. “Yeah, he probably does,” Matt said. “No, I was asking if SHE wants my mask. If C.J. wants it,” the friend clarified. “Yeah, he probably does,” Matt said again. The friend looked confused. “C.J. is a boy,” Matt said matter-of-factly. “Eeeeefffffff meeeeeee,” the friend said, putting his hands to his head. “Eff me. I’ve been calling him a ‘her’ and a ‘she’ this whole time! Why didn’t you tell me? I feel so bad!” Matt told him it was okay. The friend apologized again before leaving the house and then again a week later when he came over. We assured again him that it’s fine. We’re fine. C.J. is fine. But the friend wasn’t fine. He felt bad and embarrassed. C.J.’s toys in the kitchen while Chase’s friends are over. We told him we aren’t hung-up on pronouns when it comes to C.J. and he prefers we ignore it when he’s misgendered. And, honestly, we are so used to people mistaking him for a girl that we don’t even notice the misgendering most of the time. None of us ever noticed the friend using the wrong pronouns. We’d assumed the teens who spend time in our home knew C.J. is a boy. Chase’s friend reminded us that it’s not always evident – and, sometimes, I’m sure it’s downright confusing to newcomers. Our lackadaisicalness when it comes to C.J.’s pronouns and misgendering caused one of Chase’s friends (and maybe more, who knows) confusion and embarrassment. I felt bad for the friend; he had the best intentions. How many of Chase’s other friends think his brother is his sister? We’ve done little things to be clearer that C.J. is a boy. You know, we do awkward things like saying his pronouns louder and referring to him as Chase’s brother more often than necessary. Like when someone isn’t fluent in your language and struggling with comprehension so you increase your volume thinking that will help them understand? Yeah, it’s like that. Super effective. As much as I feel bad for Chase’s friend, I feel good because we are educating the teens who spend time in our home. They see we are just as fine with boys in dresses playing with dolls as we are with boys in helmets playing football. We don’t get hung up on pronouns, labels or society’s expectations. Everyone is valued, accepted and loved in our home. I hope they feel that. I help they continue to enjoy our home, our food and, sometimes, our company. If they ever moved on to someone else’s house, I sure would miss their manners and messes and left behind socks.    All Posts Chase Football Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ misgender Orange County parenting Why Didn’t You Tell Me Your Son Was A Boy?!?!  C.J.’s eighth birthday was on February 1, which was also Super Bowl Sunday, which a lot of people thought was really cool, except for C.J. Luckily, Katy Perry’s halftime show made the day bearable for him. Because of the NFL’s total disregard for my child’s birthday, we were forced to celebrate early. On Friday, I picked up C.J. and three of his best girl friends after school for a birthday playdate at our house. The night before, while C.J. was asleep, I decorated the house in the pink and black party supplies he had selected. I was giving myself an “A” grade in parenting. Then, we arrived home and Matt was waiting with a bouquet of pink and white flowers for C.J., which knocked me down to a “B” grade and moved him up to an “A+” grade because a dad surprising his son with a birthday bouquet of flowers will always earn 100 percent.  At C.J.’s request, we gathered around the dining room table and decorated cookies. As you can see, to this group, more is more.  Then, we made Valentine’s Day-themed monkey necklaces. The package showed a girl monkey and a boy monkey, but we called them red monkeys and black monkeys. I told C.J. and his girl friends that we had enough supplies for each of them to make one red monkey necklace and one black monkey necklace. They all made the red monkey first and decorated it to be a girl monkey. “I’m going to make the black monkey be a half boy, half girl monkey,” C.J. informed everyone at the table. “Me too! The boy monkey will be half boy and half girl like you, C.J.!” one of his friends said. All the others excitedly followed suit and C.J. was beyond flattered.  The cookie decorating and necklace making didn’t take nearly as long as I had anticipated; I was scrambling to think of something for them to do. “We’re going to go upstairs and play what we always play during lunch and recess,” C.J. proclaimed. “What do you play?” “Annie.” And, with that, they were off, clamoring up the stairs and slamming doors as they all selected articles of clothing from our enormous dress up bin and dispersed to various rooms to get suited up. C.J. put on a dress, which I wasn’t sure he’d feel comfortable doing because one of the girls had never been to our house before nor seen him in a dress or skirt. When they reconvened in C.J.’s room they took their places (naturally, C.J. got to be Annie since he was the birthday boy) and, then, at the top of their lungs, started singing “It’s A Hard-Knock Life.” Over and over and over and over again. They even had a semi-choreographed dance routine. I wondered what the other kids on the playground thought about them when they did this at school. After close to an hour of enjoying their vocals, I suggested it was time to open presents. On the way downstairs C.J. and his friends tried to convince me that the new Annie movie is better than the original Annie movie. In an attempt to be a gracious host, I said that we should agree to disagree. Proving they know him well, his friends gifted him with My Little Pony, Monster High, Littlest Pet Shop and a Target gift card, which he later spent on Shopkins and leggings.  When, it was time to take his friends home. C.J. left his dress on and slipped on flip-flops. “Is C.J. going to take me home wearing a dress?!” his newer friend asked. “Yup.” “Why?” “Why not?” I asked. She shrugged her shoulders and giggled and took his hand as they walked to the car. We went to bed early that night, because the next day was a very big day….    All Posts Annie Birthday gender creative gender nonconforming Gender Stereotypes LGBTQ Littlest Pet Shop Monster High My Little Pony Orange County parenting Shopkins C.J.’s Birthday Part I: The Playdate  C.J. met Samuel about three years ago when Samuel was a boy named Samuel. Now, Samuel is a girl named Sophia. Initially, C.J. and Samuel bonded over being boys who liked to be mermaids in water and princesses on land. They painted their nails together, celebrated birthdays together and put on fashion shows together. “Samuel is more gender nonconforming than I am,” C.J. would point out to me privately. It was a fact that often caught him by surprise because he rarely met a boy who was more gender nonconforming than he was. About this time last year, Samuel decided — once and for all — that he was not Samuel, he was Sophia. I had emotional talks with Samuel’s mom. We’d both always known it was a possibility that our sons were transgender; but, thinking it could be so and having it be so are vastly different. Nothing prepares you for your boy’s first day of school as a girl. With every ounce of my being, I tried to make it all about Sophia and her mom during our talks and time together during her transition. Then, I’d hang up or walk away and wonder what Sophia’s transition would mean for my son and my family. C.J. had gone through periods during which he wanted to be known as Rebecca, Chloe, Raquel and Cleo. At different times, he said that he’d be a girl when he grew up. A few times, he’s said that he might be trans. But, he never fully committed to any of it. When it came to his gender identity and gender expression, we followed his lead, but he never continually led us in the same direction. It was maddening a lot of the time, though we never let him know it. If his friend Samuel became Sophia, what would C.J. become? Would C.J. want to transition because Sophia did? If C.J. transitioned, would it be the right decision for him? After much stalling, I nervously sat down next to C.J. on his bed and explained to him that Samuel was becoming Sophia. He looked at me oddly and thought for a minute or two. “Is he transgender?” he asked. “Yes. She is transgender. So from now on we call her Sophia and use ‘her’ and ‘she’ instead of ‘he’ and ‘him,’” I replied. He was quiet some more. “What are you feeling?” “I don’t know.” “Are you sad?” “Yeah.” “Are you jealous?” “Yeah.” “I want to wear dresses to school and everywhere like Sophia will now.” “Well, you know you can.” “I know. But it’s different now because she’ll be a girl wearing a dress and I’ll still be a boy wearing a dress.” The first few times C.J. saw Sophia, I saw some envy in his green eyes as he studied her. I worried how Sophia’s transition made C.J. feel; it was clear that it was making him feel something. “I don’t want to be a girl every day. I don’t even want to be a girl every other day. I’m not transgender,” he blurted out one day while we were playing with his LEGO Friends. “Okay,” I said. C.J. has been consistently leading us in the same direction for six months now. I was worried that Sophia’s transition would influence C.J. to do the same, but, as of right now, it’s done the opposite. C.J. still dresses up in skirts and dresses at home, plays with dolls, paints his nails and loves to take part in fashion shows. He’s the same boy he was when he met Samuel, even though Samuel is not. “I’m gender nonconforming, but I’m not transgender,” he sometimes explains to people. I tell him he doesn’t need to clarify. “Sometimes I do,” he insists. “Okay,” I say. C.J. and Sophia have taught me that gender is unique to every person. You don’t have to clarify your gender for other people, but sometimes you have to clarify your gender for yourself.    All Posts Gender gender nonconforming LGBTQ Orange County parenting trans transgender transition When Your Child’s Boy Friend Becomes Their Girl Friend  Chase on the beach More often than not, my 11-year-old son Chase initiates a serious conversation with me when I am otherwise occupied and unable to make eye contact and use body language to signal that he has my undivided attention. He has employed this tactic while I’ve been driving, cooking dinner and running on the treadmill in our garage. The other night, as I sat on my bathroom floor painting my toenails, Chase walked in and asked if he could soak in the bath, I did see him browsing the internet about united kingdom shower baths trends but  I should have known something was up; he always takes a shower. He ran the water, added some bubbles, stepped in, sat down and closed the shower curtain. He said something that I couldn’t hear over the running bath water. “I can’t hear you. Wait until you turn the water off,” I shouted. “It’s really sad that some parents don’t accept their kid if they are gay,” he said. “Is that really true?” “Yeah, it’s true and it is really, really sad….” I said before he interrupted me. “I just can’t believe it. I just read an article about it online,” he said in a voice full of worry. Chase on Halloween. We’ve been open with both of our sons that not everyone is supportive of the LGBTQ community – even some parents of community members. But, Chase didn’t believe me until he read it online. “But, you know that we will love you and support you no matter what, right?” I had stopped painting my nails and was now talking to the shower curtain. “I know that. You and dad would love me the same no matter if I’m gay or straight.” He sounded assured. “I don’t care if you love a boy or a girl, I just want you to be with someone who is good and kind and treats you well and who you want to treat well. I want you to have a good partner.” “If I date a transgender person, does that make me bisexual?” he asked. I didn’t see that question coming. I looked bewilderingly at the shower curtain. “Ummmmm….” I had to think, but was having a hard time concentrating as the conversation had quickly taken a turn down a path I had not anticipated. “Is the transgender person you are potentially dating a boy or a girl? “Girl.” “Okay, so she was born with a boy body but identifies as a girl and lives as a girl and dresses as a girl?” I clarified. “Yes, I think so.” “Is this a real life girl you’re thinking about?” I asked. “NO!” He still isn’t totally comfortable admitting to me when he finds someone attractive. Chase bowling. “Okay, sorry, just checking. Ummm, I guess that’s a little bit tricky.” I didn’t want to ask if the fictional transgender female had transitioned medically because I was already getting bogged down by logistics. “To me, that would make you straight and would make her straight. But, I guess to some people that would make you bisexual….” “Okay, then that would be the only time I’m bisexual, the rest of the time I’d be straight,” he said quickly. “Sounds good,” I said, not knowing what to say and rolling my eyes at myself for only the shower curtain to see. “I guess that could also make you pansexual,” I offered — because I couldn’t leave well enough alone. “What does pansexual mean?” he asked. “It means that you fall in love with the person, not their sex or gender.” “I think I’ll be pansexual because that starts with ‘pan’ and ‘pancake’ starts with ‘pan’ and pancakes are my favorite food,” he reasoned. I’d never heard someone identify sexually based on a sexual orientation sounding like their favorite breakfast food, but who was I to judge. “Pancakes are good,” I agreed. I heard him pull the drain and the water start to empty from the tub. He pulled the shower curtain back. “I think it’s really cool that you’re open to dating a trans person. You have a good heart,” I said. “Thanks,” he said hurriedly as he wrapped himself in a towel and scurried out of the room quickly, avoiding the dreaded eye contact that accompanies conversations about love and sex between mother and tween son.    All Posts Chase Gay Gender homosexual LGBTQ Orange County Pansexual parenting transgender Mom, What If I Date A Transgender Person?  Art by Leelah Alcorn The suicide and suicide letter of Leelah Alcorn haunt me. They have gripped my heart and not let go, squeezing tighter every time I think about them. And, I think about them often. Leelah’s suicide affects me so deeply because, like her, my child is differently gendered — putting him in the group of children who have the highest rate of suicide attempts in the world. That could be my child. That could have been my brother. We grew up in very religious home. We went to youth group on Wednesday nights and church every Sunday. If you didn’t go to church, you didn’t go anywhere else. Starting in seventh grade, at age 12, I was taught that being gay was one of the worst sins a person could commit and being transgender was unspeakable. When I was in high school and my brother came out I was afraid to tell the people at church. When I did, my pastor made to cry tears of shame and fear. That was the day my disappointment in and separation from organized religion began. Then, along came C.J. The more gender nonconforming my son became, the less I wanted to do with church. The thing I heard – and continue to hear – most about my son is something that Leelah often heard. “God doesn’t make mistakes.” Art by Leelah Alcorn Religious people use the saying in their opposition to those who are differently gendered. They hope to mean that God makes everyone cisgender — with bodies and genders that align. He doesn’t. Just as not everyone is white and right handed with blonde hair and blue eyes. They feel that if my son is gender nonconforming, it’s a mistake and it’s my fault. My son, with his boy body, girl brain and pure heart, is not a mistake. My unconditional love for him is not a mistake. No part of C.J. is an inaccuracy, error or blunder. He is perfectly created by – if you are a believer – a God who does not make mistakes. My son and Leelah were perfectly made. God doesn’t make mistakes, people do. Often they make mistakes in God’s name. The bulk of the hate mail I receive (I’d say at least 80 percent) is from religious people who say outright or strongly imply that they are speaking on behalf or at the inspiration of God or his son Jesus Christ. They spew vile, hateful, graphic words at my family and me in the name of a god who explicitly preached to spread love. When people write those things to me and press the send button, I picture their God and their Jesus in heaven shedding a tear and shaking their heads. This is not how he intended his disciples to witness. Of this I am sure. And, that is not how he wants parents to parent the children he has given to them. Bullying your child into the path of a semitrailer is no way parent. No way to be a human being. No way to call yourself a Christian. That’s a lot to have to answer for at the pearly gates on judgment day. I hope Leelah’s parents and all other homophobic and transphobic Christians are prepared when that day comes.    All Posts bullying Christianity Church Gender gender creative gender nonconforming Leelah Alcorn LGBTQ parenting Religion Suicide trans transgender God doesn’t make mistakes, people do  “Mom, I only want three things for Christmas this year,” C.J. said from the backseat as I shuttled him to gymnastics. “Oh, really? Just three things?” I had a hard time believing the brevity of his list. “Yes. If I only ask for three things, I’ll probably get all three, right? My chances will be better?” “Yeah, probably.” Then, he proceeded to tell me in length about the three items on his wish list. He wanted a jacked that, when you put it on and zip it up, makes you totally invisible. When I told him that an invisible jacket doesn’t exist I broke his heart. Later I suggested to Matt and Chase that we buy C.J. a hoodie and when he zips it up we pretend that we don’t see him. Problem solved — except that neither Matt nor chase thought the three of us could successfully pull off ignoring C.J. The second thing that C.J. wanted was a time machine so that he could go WAY back in time and go to a disco roller-skate party and go “not so far back” in time to play with himself as a baby. He also wanted to go back to the exact moment he realized that he likes “girl stuff,” not “boy stuff.” If the revelation that there is no such thing as an invisible jacket broke his heart, imagine the melancholy he felt upon learning that time machines do not, in fact, exist. I am the crusher of dreams and ruiner of Christmas. I waited for him to tell me about the third thing he wanted and hoped with all my might that it would be something a little more realistic (and, preferably, orderable from Amazon). Nope. He wanted a life-size stuffed animal giraffe. When we got home I opened my laptop and showed him several of the largest plush giraffes I could find. We’re talking four to five feet in height. “How tall is a real giraffe?” I googled for an answer when I should have just said “four to five feet.” Real giraffes are 18 feet, so, naturally, C.J. does not want a four or five foot tall plush giraffe. “Can you think of anything else you might want? Besides those three things?” “A clear hamster ball big enough from me to get in and run around in. A human size hamster ball.” Later that night, I sat down with C.J. and helped him create an Amazon Wish List. I let him click away and grow his list until his heart was content — to make up for the afternoon’s invisible-jacket-time-machine-giraffe-height devastation. C.J. found 67 on Amazon that he has to have. Amazon.com   He wants this seven-inch Taylor Lautner doll to match the three Jacob Black/Taylor Lautner/Twilight posters he has hanging above his bed. Amazon.com He also wants this 11-inch Taylor Lautner doll. Amazon.com And, he wants this seven-inch Taylor Lautner doll. Because a boy can never have too many Taylor Lautner dolls. Target.com These heels for when he “goes to a party or has dance parties around the house.” Amazon.com Because I watched it with him once and he says “it’s one of the best movies of all time.” I have to agree. Amazon.com Who hasn’t loved Polly Pocket at some point in their life? (“Me” Matt said.) Amazon.com These are like the new Troll dolls that they had when I was a girl. Amazon.com I had one of these when I was a girl. They are $50 now. That’s not how much they were when I was little. FYI. Amazon.com The new Monster High doll’s name is Invisi Billy. He’s the son of the Invisible Man and “has a look that’s all his own.” Amazon.com He wants these so that he can play Disney Infinity with his brother. Amazon.com It’s the closest thing to a human hamster ball I/Santa could find. *** Happy holidays to all of you and let’s catch up again in 2015! xoxo, Lori      All Posts Christmas gender creative gender nonconforming Jacob Black LGBTQ Monster High parenting Taylor Lautner Twilight What My Son Wants For Christmas  Ronin Shimizu Like my son, Ronin Shimizu was a young boy living in California. He was a cheerleader, like my son hopes to be one day. Ronin is described as positive and happy, like my son is often described. He endured bullying because he liked something that some people is “only for girls.” Sadly, my son knows exactly how that feels. Last week, 12-year-old Ronin decided to end the bullying by ending his life. I worry every day that my son will have this too in common with Ronin. Because the group of kids like Ronin and my son have the highest rate of suicide attempts in the world. The articles about Ronin’s death report that in the years leading up to his suicide, Ronin’s parents made multiple complaints to his school about the homophobic and gender-based bullying their son was experiencing. The school’s response was inadequate and the bullying continued. Even after his parents removed him for school to homeschool him, Ronin continued to experience bullying that became unbearable. As I read the coverage of his death, I’m swallowed by sorrow and anger. So many people failed Ronin: his bullies; the adults responsible for those bullies; people who knew about the bullying but did nothing to end it; the school; the district; and the state. California’s safe school laws are comprehensive and advanced in comparison to other states. California leads the nation in establishing laws to protect perceived and confirmed LGBTQ kids and, then, the state fails these kids miserably by not enforcing the laws the way in which they have promised to do. Our family’s child advocate and anti-bullying superhero Karyl Ketchum recently traveled to Sacramento with a colleague to meet the staff at the California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity. The office was created to investigate complaints of bullying and discrimination against schools and districts throughout California and enforce the state’s excellent safe school laws and education codes. While at the office, Ketchum discovered that the California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity has not investigated a single claim of discrimination filed by or on behalf of students across the state. The office’s failure to enforce anti-bullying laws has resulted in dangerous, system-wide ignorance and unaccountability in California’s schools. The Education Office of Equal Opportunity doesn’t even log or track appeals. The on-going systemic failure is detailed in the scathing 2013 California State Auditor’s Office’s report summarized here: https://www.auditor.ca.gov/reports/summary/2012-108 “Students across our state are waiting indefinitely on news of their appeal and for relief from the bullying they are experiencing, relief that, under the current system, will likely never come,” Ketchum said. “In the entire history of the California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity there has never been a single actual investigation into the veracity of a student’s complaint of bullying, harassment, or discrimination. This situation constitutes a state of emergency for our children. We need a response from the California Department of Education that measures up to the size and scope of this emergency.” I don’t know if Ronin’s parents filed an official uniform complaint form with the school, district or California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity. But, I have to believe that if the California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity were doing it’s job, schools and districts would be more informed about the laws they are supposed to be abiding and guided by. Schools and districts would know that they have to answer to someone. And, when Ronin’s parents brought the bullying to their attention, action would have been swift, not stumbling. Until more school and districts understand and enforce the protections kids like my son and Ronin are entitled to, I’m terrified that we will continue to hear of more outcomes like Ronin’s. If other parents can’t teach their kids to treat others like they want to be treated, for families like ours, schools, districts and the California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity are our only hope. Right now that hope seems dim. If you want to do something to help LGBTQ kids and their families in California, please email and/or phone State Superintendent Tom Torlakson’s office and let him know that ignoring the situation at California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity is dangerous and must stop. Please join me in demanding that California Department of Education Office of Equal Opportunity be restructured, appropriately resourced and that it become computerized now…before we lose one more young person. Torlakson can be reached at 916-319-0800 and EHughes@cde.ca.gov. If you or a young LGBTQ person you know is thinking about suicide, please call The Trevor Lifeline at 1-866-488-7386. For adults over the age of 24, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255.      All Posts bullying California Department of Education LGBTQ parenting Ronin Shimizu Safe School Laws State Superintendent Tom Torlakson Tom Torlakson California Department of Education Lies, Does Not Investigate LGBTQ Bullying  On Friday, I announced that I was giving away a copy of Al Vernacchio’s book For Goodness Sex to one lucky winner.  To enter to win, you had to leave a comment letting me know what you are thankful for this Thanksgiving season. The comments were so heartwarming that the book’s publisher contacted me and gave me another copy of the book to giveaway. So, the two winners are: Dan Woog and fit40sblog If you’re a winner, email me at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com with your name and mailing address.  Congrats! What am I thankful for? The supportive, loving, caring, inspiring, smart, hilarious people in my life: Matt, C.J., Chase, our village and all of you. I’m a lucky, lucky girl.      All Posts For Goodness Sex Gay Giveaway LGBTQ parenting winners And The Winner Is….  I’m in love with a book. A few months ago I was given a sneak peek of Al Vernacchio’s book For Goodness Sex and I was so thankful for it, that I wrote a blurb for the book’s back jacket cover. Here’s my blurb: At last a book that teaches parents how to talk to kids about sex in a way that is based healthily in reality and not fearfully in doom and gloom.  I wish my parents had read this book!  Vernacchio is smart, funny and offers parents everything they need to know to comfortably move away from the abstinence-based sex education of the generations that came before us.  His lessons do not discriminate and can be practically applied to any gender and any orientation, helping to support all types of families. I had been looking for some tips for talking to my kids about sex that 1.) didn’t assume their sexuality and 2.) weren’t abstinence based. This book is it. Here’s a description of the book: A progressive, effective, and responsible approach to sex education for parents and teens that challenges traditional teaching models and instead embraces 21st century realities by promoting healthy sexuality, values, and body image in young people. Sex education today generally falls into one of two categories: abstinence-only or abstinence-based education—both of which tend to withhold important, factual information and leave young adults ill-equipped to make safe decisions. Al Vernacchio, a high school sexuality educator who holds a Master’s degree in Human Sexuality from the University of Pennsylvania, has created a new category: sex-positive education.  For Goodness Sex offers the tools and insights adults need to talk young people and help them develop healthy values and safe habits. With real-life examples from the classroom, exercises and quizzes, and a wealth of sample discussions and crucial information, Vernacchio offers a guide to sex education for the twenty-first century. Want to win a copy of the book? Tell me a thing or two that you’re thankful for this thanksgiving season. The winner will be selected by C.J. on Monday and announced on Tuesday. Good luck!!!!    All Posts Al Vernacchio books For Goodness Sex Gay LGBTQ parenting Sex Ed Sex Education The Talk Giveaway: For Goodness Sex  Last week I published a blog post about things said during a PTA meeting I attended at my youngest son’s school. I wanted to shine a light on the homophobic, transphobic, insensitive, hateful and hurtful things that some moms said during the meeting and show that as far as we have come in LGBTQ acceptance and equality, there is still much work to be done. And sometimes that work needs to be done in heavy doses at places much closer to home than we’d like. Almost immediately, PTA moms from our school started commenting, messaging and reacting viscerally on social media. As they did, I stared at the PTA tagline: Every child, One voice. I’m not convinced that our PTA as a whole cares about every child and some of the voices I heard that night are not voices I want speaking on behalf of my child. That being said, of course I don’t think that every parent at our school and member of the PTA is transphobic or homophobic. That would be a silly assumption and one I never made. I hope that the PTA moms at my school will reread my original blog post when their feelings have subsided and really take in and think about the words used at the meeting and the tone in which they were said. And, think about the words and tone used since then. “I wasn’t at the meeting, but I talked to several other moms who were and (insert defensive comment here)…” – PTA Mom I’m not interested in gossip, hearsay or what other moms are saying behind my back. If you were not at the meeting, please do not contact me to defend the people who were in the room who used transphobic language, homophobic language and/or hate speech. Think long and hard about the people you are defending and why. I’m open to conversations, but I’m not open to your take on a meeting for which you were not present. Instead, let’s talk about how we can make our school and community more welcoming and inclusive of all students. “We have a great group of teachers, parents and a wonderful school.” – PTA Mom I’m sure that if you and your child are heteronormative, cisgender and possess no special or unique needs outside of what the school and district are accustomed to dealing with, then you do view it as a wonderful school with a great group of teachers and parents. If that’s the case, please consider yourself lucky. To the mother who wrote this in particular, when both of our oldest children were in third grade at this school, mine suffered homophobic bullying and harassment to the point that he threatened suicide during winter break. His teacher, the administration at the time and the district handled the situation so horribly that we had to seek the services of a child advocate, contact the ACLU, submit a Uniform Complaint Form and have an official investigation launched. At the school last year, C.J. was bullied in the boy’s bathroom by a group of boys intent on looking at his genitalia to see if he has a penis or a vagina. It’s interesting to note that parents are worried about my son using the girl’s restroom (which, again, he does not) for unfounded reasons, yet my son has been harassed by boys and made to feel unsafe in the boy’s bathroom. So, sometimes our school doesn’t seem wonderful to those of us who fall outside of what South Orange County perceives to be “the norm.” Our family wants nothing more than for the school to be a wonderful place for every student and things are looking up. C.J.’s current teacher is beyond amazing and the new administration has been wonderfully supportive. Our school could be wonderful, and in many ways it is, but it has work to do — as evidenced at the PTA meeting (which this mom did not attend). “I was there, and while I agree that there were a few loud mouth parents there, you need to know that at least one in particular has made loud mouth, insensitive remarks about other issues, at PTA meetings and elsewhere.” – PTA Member So because that “loudmouth, insensitive” mom is an asshole all of the time I should excuse her? She gets a free pass to say transphobic things and use hate speech because she talks nastily about everything? No. Again, think about whom you are defending and making excuses for and why. Think about it this way, if a person of color had been in the room, would people have tolerated the “loudmouth, insensitive” mom making white supremacist comments? I mean, after all, “that’s just how she is.” When we allow hate speech from one person on campus, we allow it from other people and the climate on campus suffers. “You sat way in the back and if you would have stayed after the meeting, you could have had a constructive conversation.” – PTA Mom The location of my seat should not matter and bears no importance. I walked in and simply took an empty seat. I left immediately after the meeting to pick up my kids because I had to arrange childcare to be able to attend the meeting. People shouldn’t have to stay after the meeting to have a constructive conversation. And, if that is the case, then that time should be agendized and communicated to all members, parents, teachers, etc. I’m used to meetings where the constructive conversations take place during the allotted meeting time and biased opinions that are not relevant to the topic are shared privately post meeting, if at all. All this drama has me really considering Atlanta private schools for my son. I’m always up for constructive conversations. You can reach me at raisingmyrainbow@gmail.com. I’ve already had a really fruitful conversation with the one mom who contacted me requesting to talk after reading the post. “You should have used this forum to educate.” – PTA Mom If by “this forum” you mean the online world, I’ve been educating people about childhood gender nonconformity and LGBTQ youth for four years. I encourage you to read my blog and book to learn more. If you mean that I should have used the PTA meeting as a forum to educate, I argue that that was not my role that night. I was there as a mom, not as the presenter or educator. I was there to listen and learn and when things started to get out of hand, I knew it was best for me to observe and not lash out with my initial reactions. “None of those things were said” and “I didn’t hear them.” – PTA Moms The things that I wrote were said. Every single one of them. If you were at the meeting, you may not have heard everything. But, I can tell you that from where I sat I heard all of the things that I wrote – and then some. When you have a child that is directly affected by the topic being discussed, you tend to listen very closely, as I did. I wanted to hear how people responded and reacted to this issue that my family deals with daily. I did not write in my blog post any comments that I heard outside of the public meeting – and those were much, much worse. “You’re giving the PTA and our school a bad name!” – PTA Mom I argue that it’s not me who is giving the PTA a bad name, but rather it is the moms who used transphobic, homophobic hate speech during the meeting and the peers who defended them then and have continued to defend them since who give our school and PTA a bad name. My post was not meant to be a referendum on the actual PTA organization, national, local or otherwise. For me, this horrible event could have happened anywhere: a church group, sports team, scout meeting, etc. The fact that it happened at a PTA meeting is just an example of this particular issue. That said, I do feel like our school’s chapter failed at the National PTA’s mission to connect all parents to their school community and encourage parent engagement. Tolerating behaviors that alienate parents due to bias and prejudice has to be addressed. “I for one will never again feel comfortable asking a question at a PTA meeting… I’m worried that people will not feel comfortable to ask questions.” – PTA Mom Instead of this all or nothing approach to speaking out in PTA meetings, maybe you should take a minute to think about the things you are saying, the way you are saying them, who is hearing them and how they could be perceived. I teach my kids to think about what they’re going to say and always speak as if a person of every gender, ethnicity, religion, race, sex, disability and sexuality is in the room. You know, just to be respectful of others. Maybe you could try that. As adults, we can usually tell when a question is being asked out of sincere interest and when it is being asked skeptically, argumentatively and dismissively.   I’ll meet with anyone from our school who has questions that come from a place of wanting to learn about kids like my son. I’m serious; I’ll make time for every single family, do it confidentially, individually or in groups and give you nothing but honesty. All you have to do is ask and show up with an open heart and open mind. A special thanks to the HRC, Welcoming Schools, PFLAG and the ACLU this past week. The support I’ve felt from these organizations was tremendous and critical.  Also, even though the presenter at the PTA meeting cited statistics gathered and published by GLSEN, he was not there as a representative of GLSEN.     All Posts ACLU bullying Gender gender creative gender nonconforming GLSEN HRC LGBTQ Orange County parenting PFLAG PTA Welcoming Schools To The PTA Moms at My Son’s School  Imagine my utter delight when I learned that at the next PTA meeting, someone would be speaking about the anti-bullying laws in place to protect LGBT and gender creative kids. Although I’m a card-carrying PTA member, I’ve attended only three PTA meetings in my six years as mother to an elementary-school-aged child. Each time I sat through the meeting feeling like the PTA wasn’t the place for me. But, hell, if they were going to be discussing LGBT and gender issues, maybe I had been wrong. I walked into the crowded Multipurpose Room and found a seat in the back corner by myself. I listened as the PTA board and its members ran through the agenda. When they started passionately discussing the nutritional value of whole-wheat goldfish crackers versus original goldfish crackers, I tuned out. I will never argue about goldfish crackers; of that you can be sure. Finally it was LGBT time. To start, the presenter rattled off statistics from GLSEN’s latest National School Climate Survey. I use the same numbers when I present to groups. They are powerful.  At school, 74 percent of LGBT students were verbally harassed in the past year because of their sexual orientation and 55 percent because of their gender expression.   As a result of feeling unsafe or uncomfortable at school, 30 percent of LGBT students missed at least one day of school in the past month.   A hostile school climate affects students’ academic success and mental health. Grade point averages for these students were between nine and 15 percent lower than for others.   LGBT students who experience victimization and discrimination at school have worse educational outcomes and poorer psychological well-being.  “I don’t believe those numbers,” a mother in my row blurted out, startling me. “Yeah! Where did you get those numbers from!?” another mom shouted from one row over. The presenter started to reply. “They’re actually from a survey GLSEN does…” “Who?!” a mom questioned. “GLSEN…” “I’ve never heard of them!” a mom yelled. Another mom was skeptically writing down the name so that she could look GLSEN up when she got home. “Are those numbers for elementary students?! They have to be for only high schoolers and this is an elementary school!” “They are for all students,” the speaker replied. (The numbers are actually for middle school and high school students.) “But, not in our area. Those aren’t Orange County numbers!” For a group that tries to stick strictly to Robert’s Rules of Order, this was an unruly behavior. The presenter carried on bravely in the face of rudeness and righteousness. “What do we call girls who like play with boy toys and wear boy things?” he asked. “Tomboys!” the mom next to me shouted out, proud of herself for knowing the right answer. “Great. And, what do we call boys who like to play with girl toys and wear girls things?” “Gay Boys!” she shouted just as assuredly. My head whipped instinctively in her direction and not for any reason other than I could not believe she would think it was okay to volunteer that answer out loud in public. She felt me looking at her. “What?! That’s what they call them!” she said, like I was the stupid one. The presenter started going through a list of the state and national laws in place to protect LGBTQ and differently gendered kids. When he got halfway down the list of laws, to AB 1266, the crowd went wild. AB 1266 is a California law stating that a student cannot be discriminated against based on their sex, gender, gender identity or gender expression. Specifically, they can play on the sports teams and use the restrooms that are consistent with their gender identity. “The laws are protecting these trans kids but not the normal kids!” “I’ve talked to several of my attorneys about this law…” “I don’t want a girl in the boys bathroom looking at my son’s penis!” “They should build them their own bathroom so they aren’t in there with other kids!” “There are two of ‘them’ at our school using the girls bathroom! Two!” Heat took over my entire body. My heart had either stopped beating entirely or was beating so hard that it would explode. I was going to drop dead at the PTA meeting. They were talking about my gender nonconforming son. Trust me, I know, because this has been an issue for more than a year. People believe that my son uses the girls’ restroom. And, it’s not just people at our school who believe it. It’s a rumor that has spread through the district and all the way to the local mega church, forcing my parents out of a bible study when a fellow Christian berated them through clenched teeth in front of their small group of fellow believers. “There’s two?!” “Yes, TWO!” By the tone of their voices and looks on their faces, I could tell that these mothers hate my child because of where they think he relieves himself. I wanted to defend my son. I don’t want anybody to hate my child. I wanted to fight for his honor, but I needed to get myself under control first — or who knows what might fly out of my mouth. As I collected my thoughts, the mob mentality had set in. The moms in the room were influenced and encouraged by the behaviors and opinions of their peers. They couldn’t believe that any person in the room (other than the presenter) might have a differing point of view. To quiet the crowd, the presenter turned on a 20/20 clip featuring Jazz Jennings, a transgender teen advocate who is nothing short of amazing. I smiled at Jazz, her supportive family, her mermaid swim fin and her happiness. “Those parents are playing God!” a mother said loudly as she crossed her arms angrily over her chest and shook her head in disgust. “Yeah, and now that poor thing is sterile!” said another mom. Like a child is broken if it can’t procreate. Like there’s no other way for a family to form. When the clip was over the meeting was over and I had to rush to get my kids. Later, I sat with Matt and told him about the meeting. “We’ve got to pull C.J. out of that school. Those people are fucking crazy,” he insisted. “No, the school administration is great. I trust them. And his teacher is a dream come true. It’s just the PTA moms who are horrible. And, as much as they would hate to hear it, they are inconsequential. Their opinions don’t matter,” I said. “You’re not going to another PTA meeting, we don’t need to be around people like that.” “That will be the last PTA meeting I ever attend, trust me.”    All Posts AB 1266 bullying Gay Gender gender creative gender nonconforming GLSEN Jazz Jennings LGBTQ Orange County parenting PTA The Last PTA Meeting I Will Ever Attend 