For the past two years the Human Rights Campaign has sponsored national I am Jazz reading events, where people will gather in schools and community centers to read the children’s book by transgender teenager Jazz Jennings, as told to Jessica Herthel and beautifully illustrated by Shelagh McNicholas.  As a trans person myself who was a gender non-conforming child I appreciate the intent behind the readings, but I frankly hate the book, and I really wish they would find something else to read. Let’s think about what we want to accomplish by reading kids a book about transgender issues.  First, we want to teach kids to accept and support any classmates who might be trans.  Second, we want to give kids the understanding and good habits to accept and support trans people when they grow up.  Third, we want to send a signal to any trans kids in the audience that they are accepted and supported.  The HRC says as much in their press release. So how does I Am Jazz do?  Well, let’s start by going over the plot, such as it is.  Jazz loves girly things, because Jazz is a girl in a boy’s body.  Jazz has lots of friends who are girls, and they have lots of fun doing girly things together.  In terms of plot, it’s no Cat in the Hat.  It isn’t even Go Dog, Go! The only action is Jazz and her friends playing soccer, and that happens mostly off the page.  Everything is static, habitual. Jazz is. She likes things.  She has friends.  She and her friends like to do things.  The end. Jazz is expertly drawn as a pretty girl who may inspire some desire in other girls: if I were open to having a trans friend, these girls will think, she might turn out to be like Jazz, and then we could be pretty and girly together.  Herthel wrote that she was inspired to write the book when her daughters had just such a reaction on meeting Jazz.  On the other hand, there is nothing here for boyish boys and tomboyish girls.  They may be turned off by Jazz’s focus on all things girly, and anyone who might have been thinking of her as a messed-up boy ripe for bullying would not be deterred by anything they read in the book. When I was a kid, I just wanted to be able to do whatever looked like fun, including dancing and playing with dolls and having tea parties as well as tree climbing and toy trucks (and not really soccer).  I wanted to wear whatever looked cool and comfortable, including skirts and tights and barrettes and lipstick as well as baseball caps and jeans.  I wanted to stay friends with the girls in my life, and I didn’t want to chase them as part of some bizarre dominance ritual.  When I was a teenager I felt a desire to be a pretty, girly girl, but I didn’t necessarily want to give up being a boy, and as a young adult I chose to become and stay a man.   I’m having trouble imagining that a kid – or a parent, or a teacher – would be any more sympathetic to my wants or choices after reading I am Jazz than before.  I didn’t want to be a stereotypical boy, but I didn’t want to be like Jazz either.  When I was a little older, a part of me wanted to be like Jazz, but another part of me didn’t, and ultimately I’m glad I didn’t spend time as a girl in high school.  Where is there anything like my life in I am Jazz?  How does it even lead to people understanding me, much less accepting or supporting me? In case you think I want to replace a ceremony that’s all about Jazz with one that’s all about me, it’s also hard to imagine that seeing Jazz being successful at being a pretty, girly girl would make kids more open to masculine-spectrum transgender or nonbinary kids, whether they’re transitioning or gender non-conforming.  We need something that includes all of us. The best thing I’ve ever read, or heard, on this subject is a book and record, and television special, that my sister used to play when I was a kid, Marlo Thomas’s Free to Be… You and Me.  It has a ton of pieces that address all kinds of gender non-conformity, including a musical adaptation of another book, William’s Doll, sung by Alan Alda.  In keeping with HRC’s earlier mission, Thomas said that ABC executives “wanted ‘William’s Doll’ cut, because it would turn every boy in the world into a homosexual — which isn’t such a bad idea.”  (There is nothing at all about sexuality in “Wiliam’s Doll” – Thomas was joking.) I’d love to see new books for kids about transgender issues, but until we have them, I’d be happy to take part in school and community readings of Free to Be … You and Me.  “Boy Meets Girl” and “William’s Doll” are just as powerful as they were back in 1972.  I’m guessing there are a lot of kids who could benefit from hearing a grown man sing “It’s All Right to Cry” in front of their classes.  And the final lines of Dan Greenburg’s “Don’t Dress Your Cat in an Apron” really say it all: A person should wear what he wants to, And not just what other folks say. A person should do what she likes to. A person’s a person that way. Articles Media Patriarchy For all the kids who are not Jazz Lots of people are talking about the New York Times opinion piece, “My Daughter Is Not Transgender. She’s a Tomboy.” by Lisa Selin Davis and the responses to it.  I was particularly frustrated with a Medium piece from Chase Strangio.  Strangio attacks Davis and her argument from several angles, but the worst is when he privilege-shames her and essentially accuses her of inciting trans murders. But connecting [questioning gender expression] to the affirmation of trans young people in their genders is reckless and dangerous and wrong. Trans youth are dying because society is telling them, telling us, that we are fake. Trans women and femmes of color are being murdered because the impulse is to believe that trans-ness is fraudulent, that our bodies are threats. Strangio is a white trans man, not a trans woman or a femme of color, so it’s disingenuous right off the bat for him to refer to “our bodies.”  It is not typically bodies like his – or even bodies like mine – that threaten people so much they kill. Strangio is technically correct that some trans women have been murdered because people thought they were being deceitful, but to simplify the cause of violence against black and latina trans women to accusations of fraud is a gross distortion of the problem.  This violence is intersectional: it is mostly directed at people who are seen as nonwhite, poor, immigrant, transgender, feminine, “gay,” and sex workers.  Nonwhite poor immigrant feminine gay sex workers who aren’t seen as trans face a level of violence that is barely distinguishable from that faced by those who are trans. Nonwhite trans women are more likely to be poor and sex workers.  Not because they’re seen as deceivers, but because many of them are already in financially precarious positions, and then their families tend to throw them out for wearing women’s clothes.  This drives them deeper into poverty and forces them to choose between sex work and hunger. When a john accuses a transgender sex worker of “being a man,” he’s not just accusing her of romantic deception (if even that), he’s accusing her of fraudulent business practices.  Sex workers get killed based on smaller accusations. Poor communities in the United States tend to be less accepting of homosexual relationships than middle-class ones, which puts pressure on anyone who might be seen being involved with a trans woman.  If a man is seen as gay, that can lead to loss of social standing, ostracism and harassment.  And if he’s seen interacting with a trans woman, people in those communities will label him as gay.  Some courageous men stand up to that kind of attack, but many others will take it out on the trans woman. Strangio comes to this with an agenda: he wants himself and every trans person to be able to assert a gender without being questioned.  I too want to be able to wear a dress without someone shouting “you’re a man!” at me – or even targeting me with microaggressions. But let’s assume we could bring about Strangio’s vision of the world, where everyone could simply state their gender and receive title to all the roles, spaces and relationships associated with it.  Who’s to say that all the dissatisfied johns and intolerant parents out there wouldn’t just move the goalposts and say that it’s okay to beat or kill a sex worker who doesn’t advertise that she has a penis, or to cast out a child who abruptly asserts a new sex without asking? Still, let’s assume that somehow by legislating acceptance of gender declarations we can somehow prevent nonwhite, poor and immigrant teenagers from being thrown out of their family homes and killed for being feminine and trans.  They still may wind up as sex workers because they’re poor, and they still may wind up getting killed because they’re poor, nonwhite and/or immigrants.  Strangio seems to hint that questioning people’s gender is tied up in white supremacy, but he doesn’t explain how. This lecture on privilege was written by a white lawyer with a large readership working for a nationally renowned nonprofit, and widely shared even as he laments that his Medium page is “lesser-read” than the New York Times.  If Strangio had really wanted to center the challenges faced by poor, nonwhite trans women, why didn’t he just link to a post by a poor, nonwhite trans woman?  If he couldn’t find anything written in response to the article by poor, nonwhite trans women, why didn’t he encourage some of his nonwhite transfeminine friends to write responses and then promote them? This is not about nonwhite trans women. My feeling is that Strangio finds the article threatening for any number of reasons, so he fights back by saying one of the worst things you can say in his circles: privilege.  But here’s the problem: Strangio is a white professional man criticizing a woman, which is one of the most privileged positions you can be in.  His trans background is not really enough to overcome the gender difference, and he knows it.  So he invokes the sufferings of black and latina trans women. Can we please not do this?  We should absolutely be talking about the murders of trans women and femmes, and what we can do to prevent them.  And on this issue we should be letting the people most affected speak, and listening to what they say, as much as possible.  But we should not be dragging this issue into an argument between two assigned-female white professionals over a white assigned-female child. Articles Media Violence Stop using trans murders Many people who have transgender feelings deal with them through body modification, or “body mods.”  Some feel better if they see in the mirror a body that looks more like the gender they want to be; others feel better if they are treated as the gender they want to be, so they change their appearance in order to increase the chance that this will happen. Hair removal is a soft body modWhen we think of transgender body mods, the first one that comes to everyone’s mind is “the surgery,” meaning genital surgery.  There are other surgeries that people talk about, and the modifications that happen with hormone use.  There is long-term hair removal through electrolysis.  Finally there are the toxic modifications produced by the “pumping” of silicone and other substances into bodies by exploitative quacks. The body mods I’ve described are permanent, or at least very hard to reverse.  There are short-term grooming procedures like makeup, clothing and wigs, which can be removed within an hour.  In between are medium-term changes that Helen Boyd has called “soft body mods,” which don’t last forever but are hard to reverse in the short term. Helen tells a story of meeting people in a bar near a trans convention and knowing instantly that they were cross-dressers, even though they weren’t cross-dressed at the time. She noticed things like pierced ears, sculpted eyebrows, lack of facial or body hair, haircuts that could work for either gender presentation, clothes that look similar to men’s clothes but were cut for women, and long fingernails with clear polish.  Lots of non-trans men have one or two of those things, but relatively few have more than two. Many non-transitioning trans people are careful about their muscles: not too big for male to female people, bigger for female to male.  We may also try to gain or lose more fat in the places that look right for our target gender presentation, even though many people say that targeted fat loss doesn’t work. There are also behavioral changes that affect how our bodies are perceived.  Some of us try to walk or stand or hold our arms in a way that minimizes signals of one gender and highlights signals of another gender, and we may try to modify our voices to sound like our target gender.  (The extent to which we succeed is a matter of debate, but it’s clear that some of us try). These behaviors and postures are temporary changes, but if they become routine they can change our muscle memory and “bleed over” into our other gender presentations.  If this happens with influential people, it can be copied by others.  This could be part of the origin of the movement and vocal patterns we see in some gay men, that are stereotyped as “swishing” and “lisping.” Body mods are not always permanent, and they’re not always obvious.  Without being permanent or obvious, they can affect the way others see us, and the way we see ourselves.  And they’re not all cheap; many of them represent a significant investment of time, money or both. Articles Grooming Soft body mods Seven years ago I talked about the notion of glamour as described by Virginia Postrel.  Virginia has been working on a book about glamour, and it was published on Monday.  Here’s the definition from the book (as of last year):  Glamour is not the same as beauty, stylishness, luxury, sex appeal, or celebrity. Glamour is, rather, a form of nonverbal rhetoric, which moves and persuades not through words but through images. Glamour takes our inchoate longings and focuses them. By binding image and desire, glamour gives us pleasure, even as it heightens our yearning. It makes us feel that the life we dream of exists, and to desire it even more. We recognize glamour by its emotional effect—a sense of projection and longing—and by the elements from which that effect arises: mystery, grace, and the promise of escape and transformation. The effect and the elements together define what glamour is. You can probably see why I was immediately struck by the connection to transgender feelings.  My strongest trans feeling is that longing to escape from my male reality, with its career obligations and social frustrations, where I’m expected to go out and get what I want, into a dream world where all I have to do is put on the right clothes and everyone will pay attention to me, desire me, and give me what I want.  (Yeah, right!) To me, glamour explains the connection between gender dysphoria, my feeling of unhappiness with being a man, and gender desire, my desire to be a woman, to be seen as a woman.  There are lots of men who are unhappy being men, but only some of us want to be women.  Glamour helps us understand why we do. As Virginia has pointed out, this is compatible with the Official Trans Narrative: if you have an innate sense of gender that doesn’t match your physical sex, then you’re likely to be unhappy and thus feel a desire to escape your birth gender classification.  But for those of us not convinced by the innatist narrative, glamour opens the door to other explanations. Since then I’ve followed Virginia on her blogs and on Twitter, and in June she mentioned that she visited my blog while checking footnotes.  On Monday night I had the pleasure of meeting her in person at the book launch party, and found that I’m quoted on Page 63, connecting glamour with despair: I came to the idea of despair based on Virginia’s characterization of glamour as a means of escape. If you’re trying to escape through a fantasy you have to be pretty desperate, right? That’s the sense of “despair” that I mean – a feeling of being trapped and having no options left.  That’s from a comment I left on an article Virginia wrote in 2008, expanding on the connection Salman Rushdie made between terror and glamour.  In the book, she expands on my connection to despair by noting the glamour elements highlighted in the documentary Paris Is Burning. The glamour response is powerful.  It can move us to approach strangers, to buy houses, and to blow up buses full of people.  It can also move us to cross-dress, to get surgery to change our bodies, and to declare gender transitions. What I’ve read of the book so far has been great.  I encourage anyone who’s interested in transgender feelings to get a copy.  I’ll be posting more about it in the future. Articles Feelings Glamour Good research Media Personal news The Power of Glamour and transgender feelings In my family, when we celebrate Passover we often have non-Jewish friends join us for dinner.  Enjoying their company in an overtly Jewish context helps to defuse potential prejudice, and the specific activity of the night, the retelling of the story of slavery in Egypt and our exodus from it, gives them the opportunity to condemn the slavery and in turn reaffirm their tolerance for us and our different practices. I should point out here that I’m actually not that different from our guests, being half-Scottish and pretty well assimilated.  Like most American Jews, I don’t do much outside of Passover and Hanukah.  My Jewishness is much more a matter of cultural heritage than religious belief.  I checked online and this inviting non-Jews is apparently a relatively new tradition: there are some people who believe that non-Jews should never participate in a Seder, because it involves sacrificial lamb meat.  The rabbinical consensus seems to be that since the Romans destroyed the Temple there’s been no such thing as true sacrificial lamb, and Paschal lamb is just a tasty symbol. The reason I’m telling you about our tradition of sharing Passover is to note that we do not challenge the separate identities of our non-Jewish friends.  We do not ask them to believe in our god or pray to him.  We do not ask them to believe the plagues and miracles.  We don’t give them a hard time if they fail to use the proper forms of addressing our god, including capitalization. We simply ask our friends to accept the historical aspects of the story, and to reassure us that they do not approve of enslaving minority populations.  We give them the opportunity to reaffirm their acceptance of us as friends and neighbors, deserving of respect and equal treatment. I propose that we as trans people do the same with the annual Transgender Day of Remembrance.  This is a day (November 20), when we talk about those of us who have been killed, for being trans and presenting as women, and often for being poor at the same time, for not being white, for being immigrants, for loving men and having sex with men. We trans people are diverse, but we have a lot in common with each other and with lesbians, gay men and bisexuals.  Among our family, friends, spouses and lovers, there are many people who share goals with us.  Those are the people we want to have by our sides when we are fighting for our goals, celebrating our lives, or supporting each other.  Like most trans people I know, there are times when I want to be treated like my target gender (a woman), with the appropriate pronouns and facilities.  These are the people who are most likely to treat me this way. The problem is that a lot of trans people treat alliances like they’re black and white.  You’re with us or you’re against us.  You believe in essentialism and determinism, and you support our entire agenda, or you’re worthless.  I understand why people use these ideological tests to screen allies: someone who doesn’t believe that we’re even provisionally women (or men) is likely to bargain away some of our rights. You don’t want to depend on people who don’t really share your goals. The key is that alliances are never permanent, and if you act like they are it’ll get you into all kinds of trouble.  An alliance is not absolute trust, it’s just a recognition of shared goals.  When you’re dealing with goals that aren’t shared, the alliance is meaningless. As I wrote before, there is a large number of people who believe that we shouldn’t be killed for being trans.  Not killing us is an idea with broad appeal.  A lot of those people will not be on board with free surgery on demand, or birth certificate changes, bathroom rights or even using our preferred pronouns.  But they are on board with not killing trans people.  If we don’t let them show it, that’s our loss. We should follow Incohate Erica’s principle of nihil de nobis sine nobis: feminine spectrum trans people who are poor, nonwhite, immigrants and sex workers should be at the center of any Day of Remembrance activities.  They, not me, not other bloggers and authors, and not the leaders of mainstream service and advocacy organizations, are the ones most at risk, and they should be doing most of the talking.  And their loved ones, who also suffer greatly, should share center stage. We trans people who are not most at risk should participate too, out of solidarity and because every once in a while one of us gets killed too.  Our dependable allies should be there too.  But on this day, and on this day most of all, we should reach out beyond our normal alliances and build new alliances around the shared principle of not killing us. This year Queens Pride House will be observing the Day of Remembrance a day late, on November 21. I will attend, and I have made the case to other members of the support group that we should reach out beyond our normal comfort zone to people who are on board with not killing us, but maybe not much else.  I hope you will consider doing the same.  If you’re not trans, check with your local Day of Remembrance organizers to see if you’d be welcome.  And consider writing a blog post or an editorial that will reach people who might not normally think about this issue, making it clear that you don’t think anyone should be killing us.  They need to hear that. Articles Violence The big tent and the Day of Remembrance I thought about going out presenting as a woman today.  I really had too much work to do, but even if i hadn’t it would have meant spending over two hours on my presentation.  It’s mostly makeup, but it’s also showering, shaving (face and chest), brushing teeth, deodorant, picking out clothes and getting dressed.  Every couple of weeks I need to spend an hour shaving my legs.  I usually don’t bother painting my nails unless I’m planning to present as a woman all day.  Today, instead I skipped all shaving, brushed my teeth, showered and dressed in about twenty minutes. I know this difference is not just because I’m trans.  The line, “But it takes me so long just to figure out what I’m gonna wear,” in “Manic Monday” resonate with non-trans women because our society polices women’s presentation much more strictly than men’s.  Laura Topham spent eight hours getting the “Essex girl” presentation, and a lot of it was procedures like hair extensions and spray tan that full-time Essex girls don’t get every day, but the average woman spends more than twenty minutes a day on her presentation.  Even many men spend more than I do to go out as a guy.  When I was in high school, a friend of mine would be in the bathroom for hours. But my female presentation requires more than the average woman, and if I had transitioned it wouldn’t take as long.  I would have gotten permanent hair removal, so I wouldn’t have to shave anywhere near as much, or put on so much makeup, and hormones would have reshaped my body to some extent. If I had chosen to transition in my twenties my shoulders probably wouldn’t be as wide, so I wouldn’t have to be so careful about my clothing choices.  In fact, when I first started wearing women’s clothes in my teens, I wore anything I could find.  I never wore makeup, because I didn’t have much facial hair until my twenties.  Going out in public has also raised the stakes.  When I was fifteen, my presentation time was about ten minutes. The presentation has always been part of my enjoyment of presenting as a woman.  But not two hours of it. Not worrying that if I miss a spot on my foundation I might get sirred or even beaten up.  Not worrying that if I nick my ankle I’ll have a scab for days and a spot for weeks.  Not worrying that if I get my tuck wrong I’ll be uncomfortable for hours. But of course, I will be uncomfortable for hours, because wearing heels and nylons and makeup and “foundation garments” is uncomfortable.  On top of that, even a good tuck is uncomfortable, and so is a padded bra and enough makeup to hide a beard shadow.  Some people put up with that every day for years.  I’m okay with it once in a while. I know some of you transitioners who are reading this are thinking smugly, “I don’t have to shave.  I don’t even wear heels or makeup most days!  I’m a -”  Yeah, we get it.  That was the point of this post.  The point is that this presentation fatigue is a factor in decisions to get permanent hair removal, to take hormones, and even to get genital surgery.  Presentation fatigue is a factor in transition. Articles Glamour Presentation fatigue Brin pointed me to a great blog post about how we relate to other people’s categories, especially the categorical systems used by other cultures.  (The author, posting as “Boldly Go,”* calls them “epistemologies,” but they seem to be what I’ve heard called “ontologies” or “taxonomies.”  I think “categories” is the most straightforward term. And yes, I do recognize the irony there.)  Boldly Go also makes the point that these categories are referred to as “social constructs,” which mean that they’re not essential and can vary from culture to culture – and, critically, that they change over time, even in a single individual. Boldly Go argues persuasively that abolishing gender is not a realistic approach.  We all have a basic need to categorize people: who is a potential ally, sex partner, life partner, co-parent, leader, friend, collaborator?  Who is a potential attacker, rival, rapist, burden?  Figuring all those things out based on the individual characteristics of everyone we encounter would be exhausting and time-consuming, so we use roles and spaces based on gender and other categories as shortcuts.  This becomes truly problematic when we forget that these categories are only shortcuts, when we essentialize them. Here’s my favorite part of Boldly Go’s post: Hidras of Panscheel Park II, New Delhi, India, 1994. Photo: R. Barrez D’Lucca / Flickr. For example, a great many people familiar with the trans* community may have heard of hijras, a concept of gender that exists within South Asia. A great many usually white trans* people have called hijra’s “trans*” or put them under the trans* label. Regardless of their intention, to take the epistemology of “trans*” and apply it to something like the hijra can be seen as an oppressive or colonising act. The hijra are hijra. That is their name. Unless a hijra specifically identifies as transgender or trans*, applying our own concepts of gender and sexuality constructed within white supremacist cultures to people outside of our epistemological framework is redefining them on our own terms for our own benefit. They (that’s Boldly Go’s preferred pronoun) go on to talk about two-spirits and quote their friend Tiara’s thoughts about gender in Malaysia and Bangladesh, and to argue that gender abolitionism is colonization in the same way. Much as I agree that it’s not realistic to abolish gender, I think it’s not realistic to ignore our own gender categories when trying to understand people from other cultures.  We may say, “that’s kind of like our idea of ‘transgender,'” but it becomes problematic when we ignore the way others categorize themselves.  It becomes colonization when we seek to replace their categories with our own.  And it’s downright offensive when we act as though our way is the One True Way of categorizing the world. This is not to say that it’s all relative, and all categorization systems are equal.  Some may have particular virtues relative to others.  But we can’t just assume that our own categorization system is superior.  We have to make a coherent argument for it. I’m less concerned with borrowing another culture’s categories.  If it’s done respectfully and with full credit and an open mind, it isn’t appropriation.  It’s just recognizing that other people may have come up with a better way of doing it than we did. I’ll have more to say on this in the future. * Boldly Go seems to have let her domain expire, so I’ve changed the link to point to a copy she posted on Medium under the name Lola Phoenix. Articles Categorization Verbal Hygiene Colonizing ontologies A while ago I talked about gendered spaces, and how they’re something of a kludge, a shortcut.  Gender roles are also a kludge, but one that’s even less justified than gendered spaces, given what we can do with modern prosperity and technology.  They persist out of some combination of tradition, politics, personal preference and convenience. Photographer unknown.The primary sex difference is of course the ability to bear children, so a thousand years ago if a man wanted to raise healthy children, the way to get them was by marrying a healthy, young, maternal woman.  Of course, not all women can bear children, as numerous frustrated European kings have shown us, but looking for a man was definitely an unproductive strategy. Nowadays it’s possible for gay couples or even single men to adopt children, so women are no longer necessary, but marrying a woman is still the most convenient way to get children, and it’s acquired the weight of tradition and politics.  For men who are sexually attracted to women, marrying a woman tends to be the preferred way of getting a child, because it pretty much ensures that the man will have sex with a woman. Other gender roles are based on secondary sex characteristics: men tend to be larger and stronger, so they’re preferred for fighting, smashing and lifting. Women tend to be able to lactate, which made them the obvious choice for caring for infants before formula was perfected. Once these roles are established, they make it easier to segregate other roles. If women are taking care of infants, it’s easy for them to keep caring for older children, and eventually for the elderly and sick. If childcare happens mostly in the home, it makes sense for women to take care of other household needs. If men are fighting, it makes sense for them to be policing internal order, and then it’s easy for them to be the ones who set the internal order.  If they’re smashing and lifting, it makes sense for them to build houses and fortifications, and then it’s easy for them to be the ones who make machines. Women and men also tend to form communities of practice based on these activities.  Any father who’s spent time with a “mom’s group” knows what I mean, as does any woman who’s attended an engineering conference. All these tendencies make sense.  What doesn’t make sense is to be so rigid about them.  Natural variation means that these sex characteristics aren’t a given.  Some people are naturally infertile.  Some women are big and strong, and some men are small and weak. Technological and social changes have made a lot of these biological generalizations irrelevant.  If we do most lifting and killing today by pushing buttons, how strong does a soldier or construction worker have to be?  If we can feed infants with formula, we don’t need nursery school teachers to have functioning breasts. Some roles have undergone gender flip-flops, or simply diversified over the years.  In the nineteenth century, the position of secretary was considered too cerebral to be entrusted to women (with all the misogyny that implies), then in the late twentieth century it was treated as exclusively female; in Binghamton in 1992 a retired temporary placement agent told me that they would never send a man on a secretarial assignment.  “Stewardesses” were once all female and doctors male, but last month I flew on a plane where most of the flight attendants were male, and my last dermatology appointment was at a practice that was mostly women.  The best nurse in my son’s neonatal ICU, who taught me to change a diaper, was a guy named Scott. There have long been exceptions to these roles.  The US Army’s recent official inclusion of women in combat is notable, but women have been fighting throughout human history.  There have been women leaders and male nurturers. There will probably always be roles in every society that are more strongly associated with one gender or the other.  There will also be people who will, for one reason or another, be drawn to the other roles.  We need to be flexible and ask if there’s really any good reason why a role should be rigidly reserved for one gender.  If there isn’t, we should accommodate everybody. Articles Categorization Kludges Patriarchy Gender roles are a kludge The killing of Islan Nettles in July followed an all-too-typical pattern: a man classified her as a woman, found her attractive and flirted with her.  He then reclassified her as “a man,” fought her and killed her.  In response to this terrifying event, I’ve told you about two alternative visions for this type of scenario.  In Janet Mock’s vision, everyone accepts all male to female trans people as women, that status as is never questioned, and the man never feels any desire to attack her.  In Desmond Child’s “Dude (Looks Like a Lady),” people may see trans women as men, but we can still be attractive, and there is no shame for any man who is attracted to a trans person. Those are definitely the best alternatives, and I pefer the second, but there’s a third one.  It isn’t as good, but it’s still better than what happened to Nettles.  It’s simple: nobody should die just because they’re trans.  Here’s my vision: A man sees a trans woman and is attracted to her.  He reclassifies her as “a man,” and loses interest in her.  Maybe he even feels angry and calls her names.  Maybe he even attacks her physically.  But he doesn’t kill her. This is what happened with Lewis Dix, Jr. and B. Scott.  Dix called Scott a “faggot,” and Scott was right to give him hell for it.  But Dix stopped there.  He didn’t attack.   Nettles’ killer could have stopped at name-calling.  Or if he didn’t stop there, he could have stopped after a punch or two.  Even if he was too drunk or too much of an asshole to stop, his “crew” could have stopped him.  They could have said, “It’s okay, we get it, you’re not gay.” they could have said, “This is a human being who doesn’t deserve to die.” I know, it doesn’t seem like a lot.  I wouldn’t be satisfied with “just” being called names and beat up.  But it would be better than what currently happens to black and Latina trans people. The thing is that there’s a large constituency for not killing trans people.  A lot of people don’t think we’re women. A lot of people don’t think we’re sexy.  Some people think we’re sinners.  Some people think that any man who’s attracted to us is gay, and that being gay is bad.  These people may disapprove of us in all kinds of ways, but they don’t think we deserve to die. This constituency for not killing us is largely untapped.  On stage at the vigil for Islan Nettles were her family, three trans people, and some lesbians and gay men.  Attending were people from the entire trans spectrum, and straight allies, including several politicians.  Besides the politicians, what I didn’t hear about were “thought leaders” in broader African-American culture beyond LGBT subcultures: clergy, musicians, actors, athletes. Who are the people that Nettles’ killer and his “crew” listen to?  What if they said, simply, it’s not okay to kill someone because they’re trans?  What if we asked them, nicely, to say it now?  Not to say “trans women are women,” not to say “it’s okay to be gay,” and not to say anything negative about us either.  Just “Don’t kill trans people.” How many of them would sign a statement?  How many would appear in a public service announcement?  How many would perform in a music video or television episode? Don’t get me wrong.  I want more than this.  I want people to treat me with respect.  I want people to treat those who love me with respect.  I want to be treated like a woman when I present as a woman.  I know you want those things too.   I’m not giving up on what I want, and I’m not telling you to give up on it either.  Laverne Cox argues that it’s the same problem, that we need those things to be safe, to be alive.  The actions of Robert Wace and Lewis Dix, Jr. show us that that’s not true.  People don’t have to endorse our entire program before they can treat us like human beings.  They don’t need to agree with us about anything else to speak out against the violence.  Let’s get them to do it. Articles Violence Come jump on the “Don’t kill trans people” bandwagon! It’s really hard for me to write this post, because it’s not my highlight reel. I worry that someone might read this and use it to undermine my credibility on issues that are not really related to it.  I worry that people might make incorrect assumptions about me based on this. Still, I think it’s important to post this.  Not very many people are writing about gender fog.  But I’ve talked to other people, and I know I’m not the only one who feels it.  So here goes. As I wrote back in July, I went out in public as a woman and had some serious gender fog.  I actually had difficulty sleeping for two weeks.  I finally decided to go out cross-dressed again, and the night between making the decision and going out was the least restful of all.  After that I had one more difficult night, and then my insomnia returned to its baseline. I couldn't hold the phone steady for long enough to take a picture. That's how excited I was to go out for the second time this year.  I don't want to get that excited.Last Saturday I went out for the third time this year, and this time I only had trouble sleeping the night before. Since then, I’ve been back to normal.  I don’t know for sure why I had such a strong reaction back in July, but I have a few guesses. When I went out in July, it was the first time in two years, and that made it much more exciting.  In August and again this weekend, it had been a month or less.  It was still exciting, but not exciting enough to keep me up for several nights.  So that was a factor. I also got a lot of affirmation in July.  I spent the afternoon with one of my best friends, and he was really nice to me, even though he’s going through a lot of his own issues.  He said I looked good, said he didn’t know how anyone could have read me.  He picked out clothes for me to try on and gave me helpful feedback.  He asked thoughtful, sympathetic questions about my trans feelings and experiences.  I also dealt with security guards who were uniformly polite, friendly and gender-affirming.  I ran into a co-worker who said I looked great. The second time I went out this year, I made the mistake of riding Citibike in the heat.  My friend is out of town, so I went to regular middlebrow stores, where people didn’t pay much attention to me, and probably less than normal because I was sweaty.  I had a nice conversation with the same co-worker, but it wasn’t as exciting the second time. This past weekend, I got sirred by the woman in the dressing room at Burlington Coat Factory.  I had a nice time and got some fun clothes, and had a short conversation with my co-worker, but overall it wasn’t that exciting.   The combination of novelty and affirmation was probably what made my gender fog so intense in July.  Since the intensity was unpleasant, I need to manage those and try not to get so much of both at the same time.  I’m planning to make my outings a bit more frequent (every month or two) without doing anything too exciting.  I’ll let you know how that goes. Articles Feelings Gender fog Personal news Gender fog update This weekend I was talking with a bisexual friend, and I described Janet Mock’s vision of a world where trans women will no longer be killed because everyone will see them as women. My friend didn’t even let me finish before she put her finger on one huge problem with Mock’s idea: it only applies to a small subset of potential victims. Vince Neil, the dude in question.As we’ve seen, this exact same scenario – boy meets girl, boy decides that girl is “a man,” boy is afraid someone will call him “gay,” boy attacks girl – doesn’t just happen with “trans women.” It happens to people like B. Scott, including when he identified as a gay man, and it happens to people like Bimbo Winehouse, who identifies as a man but wants to be seen as a woman part of the time.  It happens to people who aren’t even presenting as a woman.  It even happens to guys who aren’t gay at all but simply are mistaken for gay, like Ever Orozco, who was killed earlier this week.  It’s pretty clear what the problem is: men lose status if someone thinks they’re gay, they’re afraid of that, so they try to prove they’re not by attacking the person they were attracted to. What my friend objected to was that Mock’s vision doesn’t do anything about the underlying problem.  It doesn’t make it any easier for potential targets who really are gay or straight men and don’t wear women’s clothes.  It doesn’t make it easier for people who identify as cross-dressing men.  With its relentless hammering on the “trans women are women” dogma, it doesn’t even help people who are viewed and accepted as woman but are reluctant to claim that category for political reasons.  It just attempts to draw a charmed circle around people who are willing to claim the status of “woman,” and those who are attracted to them.  And of course it doesn’t protect any of us from the violence that is regularly directed at women. Now I want to look at another vision of a better world.  There was a fascinating article by Sue Kerr about the story behind the Aerosmith song “Dude (Looks Like a Lady).”  I remember when that song came out.  I wasn’t an Aerosmith fan, and i didn’t listen to the lyrics.  The refrain sounded like a distress call, the video was boring, and I didn’t want to be a dude that looked like a lady.  I wanted to be a lady, or at least a girl.  I changed the channel whenever it came on MTV. The backstory is interesting, though: songwriter Desmond Child told SongFacts about a conversation with Steve Tyler: “He got the idea because they had gone to a bar and had seen a girl at the end of the bar with ginormous blonde rock hair, and the girl turned around and it ended up being Vince Neil from Motley Crue.”  Tyler came up with the line, “Dude looks like a lady” and eventually shared it with Child, an out gay man who had been hired by their record label to improve their songwriting.  Child liked the line so much he made it the title of the song.  Here’s the kicker: And then Joe (Perry) stepped in and said, “I don’t want to insult the gay community.” I said, “Okay, I’m gay, and I’m not insulted. Let’s write this song.” So I talked them into the whole scenario of a guy that walks into a strip joint and falls in love with the stripper on stage, goes backstage and finds out it’s a guy. But besides that, he’s gonna go with it. He says, “My funky lady, I like it, like it, like it like that.” And so he doesn’t run out of there, he stays. Note that the narrator is attracted enough to go to bed with her, even though he continues to classify the stripper as a “dude,” and says “Ooh, he was a lady.”  I wouldn’t be surprised if Child based it on a friend or acquaintance. Both the real and fictionalized stories bear some resemblance to the Kinks’ 1970 hit “Lola,” which I heard a lot on the radio.  It’s never been my favorite Kinks song, but I did listen to the lyrics.  The narrator is ambivalent about how to categorize Lola – there’s the famous line “I’m a man, I’m a man, and so is Lola,” but he uses “she” pronouns throughout. The backstory to “Lola” is just as interesting.  Dave Davies recalled that he was inspired by a party at the home of band manager Robert Wace. “In his apartment, Robert had been dancing with this black woman, and he said, ‘I’m really onto a thing here.’ And it was okay until we left at six in the morning and then I said, ‘Have you seen the stubble?’ He said ‘Yeah,’ but he was too pissed [intoxicated] to care, I think.” Contrast “Lola” and “Dude Looks Like a Lady” with another song from the eighties, Tone L&#333c’s “Funky Cold Medina.” In the third verse the narrator gives the eponymous aphrodisiac to sexy Sheena, but to his surprise, “Sheena was a man!” So I threw him out, I don’t fool around with no Oscar Mayer wiener. You must be sure that your girl is pure for the Funky Cold Medina. Know what I’m sayin’? Ain’t no playin’ with a man. This is the eighties, and L&#333c is down with the ladies, no joke. (As I was putting this post together I came across another post by Andrea James that also mentions “Funky Cold Medina.”  James hits on some good points, but I want to go in a slightly different direction.) “Lola” explores the ambiguity of gender and ends by categorizing Lola as a man, but the final message emphasizes her humanity and the narrator’s affection for her, implicitly concluding that there’s nothing wrong or unmanly with being attracted to a “man,” especially if you’re really plastered.  “Dude Looks Like a Lady” echoes the alarm over the stripper’s unexpected dudeness, but ends by affirming her ladyhood and sexiness.  In “Funky Cold Medina,” thought, Tone L&#333c responds to Sheena’s manhood with callous rejection (but not violence). “Lola” and “Funky Cold Medina” both explore the question of what it means to be attracted to a “man.” The narrator of “Lola” is naive and inexperienced, and Lola in fact offers to “make you a man,” by giving him his first sexual experience.  Whether or not this happens is left to the listener’s imagination, but the narrator eventually concludes that he can be a man even if Lola is too.  Tone L&#333c makes it a point to reassure everyone that he’s “down with the ladies.” It’s hard not to notice that African Americans are vastly overrepresented in any list of trans people murdered in this country.  Correlation is not causation, and it’s important not to discount factors like poverty, discrimination and civic neglect, but I think everyone agrees that American black culture is more intolerant of homosexuality and transgender actions than white culture. What if a few male black cultural leaders – singers and rappers, but maybe also athletes, politicians and religious leaders – followed the lead of white guys like Dave Davies and Steven Tyler, and black women like Tyra Banks?  What if a famous, respected black man spent some of his cultural capital to tell the world that he thinks trans people are sexy, and he’s not afraid of anyone finding out? I know how this might sound to some people, but I’m not saying “do this because white people do it.”  I’m saying give it a try because it might be working for us, just like the Kinks and Aerosmith saw that the music developed by African Americans was more fun and expressive than their own and gave it a try.  It’s got more evidence of success than Janet Mock’s magic circle of fiat womanhood. I think DJ Mister Cee and his boss Ebro Darden have shown enormous courage and humanity, and I think people will respond to that.  I’m looking forward to the first black “Lola” to top the charts.  The guy who makes that will be gold.  After all, Steven Tyler and Dave Davies enjoyed years of success after these songs, and are regarded today as elder statesmen of rock.  Tone L&#333c?  Well, what’s he done since 1991? Articles Categorization Media Violence Who will sing the black “Lola”? I was glad to see Janet Mock writing about the shame that many men feel for being attracted to trans people.  As she points out, this shame is based in fear, and the fear is real.  She describes a torrent of negative comments directed at DJ Mister Cee in response to a revelation Wednesday that he had tried to have sex with a trans prostitute, and lists a number of other entertainers who have been publicly shamed for actions as simple as posing for a picture with a trans fan.  I’ve got problems with the way that a number of people are trying to spin the incident with Mister Cee, including Mock, Bimbo Winehouse and Mister Cee himself, but that’s for another post. DJ Mister Cee.Tonight I want to focus on Mock’s vision of trans acceptance.  It’s an incomplete vision, but it has far-ranging implications, so it deserves to be explored.  It begins with her moving story about disclosing her trans status to her boyfriend, and his decision to accept her, which you should definitely read if you haven’t already. Mock goes on to say that her boyfriend Aaron is constantly challenged by others on his love for her: Our relationship is marveled at largely because most people do not believe that a man like Aaron should have to “compromise” his heteronormative social standing by being with a trans woman or a woman who is not “real.” It is rare for an openly trans woman – no matter how “passable” or attractive she is – to have a man who openly loves her, who has an unabashed desire to be seen with her, who proudly stands beside her — despite the stigma and other people’s curiosities and inappropriate questions. Those questions regarding Aaron’s sexuality are constant and fraught with assumptions that this essay can’t begin to unpack, and for a man less secure it can be difficult navigating these questions, especially if you also perceive the women you’re attracted to as shameful, as less-than-human objects you must keep secret at all costs. She then articulates her vision: It’s important that we begin truly accepting trans women as who they are, women. We are not objects to have secret sex with, to discard and to laugh at on the radio or the gossip blogosphere. We are worthy of being seen and are not dirty or shameful. Until we begin checking how we delegitimize the identities, bodies and existence of trans women and stigmatize the men who yearn to be with us, we will continue to marginalize our sisters, pushing them further into socially-sanctioned invisibility, left in the dark to fend for themselves with men who are don’t have the space to explore, define and embrace their attraction to various women. As Mock acknowledges, her “passability” gave her some advantages in dating, but she wants other “trans women” to have the same advantages regardless of passability.  When she says, “their attraction to various women,” she’s imagining a culture where transness is seen as just a possible trait that a woman can have, like green eyes or broad hips or freckles, and attraction to trans women is a simple matter of taste.  I want to explore this vision and move a little past the scenario of her relationship with Aaron and the scenario of DJ Mister Cee and Bimbo Winehouse, to this scene of flirtation:  PAUL is hanging out with his friends, Steve and Dave.  They’re laughing, chatting, catching up.  All of a sudden PAUL stops for just a brief moment as he catches sight of a woman he’s never met.  He slips away from his friends and goes to chat with her.  After a few minutes he returns. STEVE: So, did you get her number? PAUL: Oh yeah, I got it.  She’s cute, right? STEVE: Eh. She’s got green eyes. I saw them as soon as she looked up. PAUL: So? That’s a bonus!  Green eyes are hot. STEVE: They don’t do it for me.  Not into green eyes. DAVE: I’m not that into green eyes either, Steve, but did you see her smile?  With a sweet smile like that her eyes could be purple for all I care. STEVE: Whatever.  She’s all yours, Paul!  Maybe tonight I’ll find me a nice brown-eyed girl. Replace “she’s got green eyes” with “she’s trans,” and you have Mock’s vision for men flirting with trans women.  The men see trans women as just a kind of women that some guys like.  Liking trans women doesn’t make the guys gay.  There is no danger of humiliation, discrimination, or physical attack.  There is nothing for them to fear. The setup for the scene may be familiar to you, because it’s based on what happened right before Islan Nettles was murdered.  This is another way the story could have turned out, if the culture had been different. As I said, I have some problems with this vision.  I’ll talk about them later.  For now, I think it’s very positive that someone – Janet Mock – has articulated an alternative to murder, a vision of how things could be better.  That’s important. Articles Categorization General News Violence Green eyes I was very honored that the members of the AURA club at Fairleigh Dickinson University invited me to give a Transgender 101 talk last Wednesday for their Pride Week.  Looking over my Skeptical Trans 101 page and imagining how someone in college today would read it, I realized that I’ve learned a lot since I originally wrote it almost four years ago, so I updated it.  Here’s the new version: Why it’s okay to be skeptical about transgender politics, while still being respectful:  As Jamison Green said, “There is NOT one way to be trans.”  A story about a single person won’t tell you about everyone. Lots of people hide their trans beliefs, feelings and actions. We don’t know about them. Anything about transgender issues that contains “most,” “all” or any percentage is probably wrong. We don’t hold elections.  Any person talking to you about their transgender beliefs, feelings or actions is not authorized to speak on behalf of anyone else. Brain science is not at a point where it can tell us anything reliable. Anything about transgender issues that talks about specific parts of the brain is probably wrong. People are not reliable – about transgender issues or anything else. Most people desperately want to be normal, and are willing to lie to themselves and everyone else to feel normal. Anything that makes anyone look normal is probably wrong. Your beliefs – about gender and everything else – are your own. Don’t let anyone tell you what to believe.  How we use gender:  Every society we know of assigns people to genders.  Usually this is “man” or “woman,” depending on the way their genitals look at birth.  Some societies have a third gender that involves a combination of the roles of the male and female genders. Most people have the habit of classifying everyone they meet into one gender or another. Often this is reflected in aspects of language such as pronouns.  Some languages, like French, even assign gender to inanimate objects. Classifying people is a means to an end. Classifying people by gender is a way to figure out whether a person will be safe, a good mate, a good worker, or even someone vulnerable.  There will always be many exceptions. Every society we know of reserves certain roles, spaces and relationships for the exclusive use of one gender or the other, such as jobs, bathrooms and marriages.  In these situations, gender is always a shortcut for some harder-to measure criterion, like strength or the ability to bear children. Every society we know of has gender expression: ways that people identify themselves as one gender or another.  Some of these are behavioral, involving habits of speaking or moving.  Others involve clothing, accessories and grooming. Many people fight over gender categories, particularly over who gets any benefits associated with belonging to one category or another, and who gets to speak for one gender or another.  How we react to gender:  Everyone has feelings about their gender.  Many people have gender dysphoria: discomfort with the gender they were assigned. Many people have transgender desire: a desire to be a gender different from the one assigned to them. Some people experience gender fog: an intense excitement associated with a significant gender event. Everyone has beliefs about their own gender.  Some people have transgender beliefs that conflict with other people’s expectations. Some people take transgender actions: they are assigned to one gender but take on expressions, spaces and roles that conflict with other people’s expectations.  These gender expressions may include modifying their bodies in various ways. These transgender actions are not new.  We find them described for every society, in every time period.  Some bad news about gender:  Some people attack other people for taking transgender actions. Some people reject their own children for transgender actions. Some people discriminate against people for taking transgender actions. Some people commit suicide over the intensity of their transgender feelings, or actions. Some people take transgender actions and then regret them.  If you have transgender feelings or beliefs:  There is NOT one way to be trans.  Base your decisions for your actions on how you want to live your life, not on a category. Gender fog can impair a person’s ability to make decisions.  Avoid making long-term decisions while in a gender fog. You don’t need to change your gender classification to come out as transgender. It’s good to experiment with gender, but some experiments can change you permanently, and others can give you unreliable information. If you’ve decided not to change your gender classification, be aware that taking certain actions might undermine that decision.  How to respect gender:  You will meet people who have strong feelings about their gender.  Be sympathetic. You will meet people whose beliefs about their gender differ from yours.  Respect their beliefs, and expect that they will respect yours. You will meet people who express gender differently from the way you expect. Respect them.  Live and let live. You will meet people who want you to address and refer to them as a different gender than you might otherwise.  Honor their desire. You will meet people who you would normally assign to one gender, but who want to take on roles and spaces that your society reserves for a different gender.  Respect their wishes and accommodate them as much as possible. You will meet people whose sexualities interact with gender in unfamiliar ways.  Respect them. You may be tempted to say something negative or mocking of transgender feelings or actions.  Think about how that might be heard.  Think about your fellow human beings.  How to help:  Some people spin myths about transgender feelings, thoughts and actions. Some of the most destructive myths are spun by people who are trying to help. Be skeptical, while still being respectful. There is NOT one way to be trans. Don’t assume everyone with transgender feelings will take the same actions. Dealing with transgender feelings is hard. Offer support (but not advice unless asked). We hear lots of nasty things about people who violate gender norms. Say a few nice things. Some people attack people who violate gender norms. Protect people from these attacks, and speak out against attacks. Some people discriminate against people who violate gender norms. Help balance that out. It’s hard for people to find love. Consider loving someone who does gender differently. Allies Articles Blog news Personal news A Skeptical Trans 101 This article was clearly well-intentioned, but it really rubbed me the wrong way.  I was a gender-non-conforming child, and overall I agree with most of those, but I would never have put them that way. I most definitely do not sign onto Duron’s #1, and I wouldn’t have when I was a child.  If you asked me whether my sex and my gender aligned (by that definition) I would’ve said yes.  That did not make me gender conforming. I also didn’t subscribe to her #3. I was trying to make some people uncomfortable.  I was much more into genderfuck rebellion in elementary school than I’ve ever been since. I was more like four years old here. Here is my best attempt to reach back through time and channel my eight-year-old self.  In the spirit of my #1, and in the grand tradition of Epimenides, take it with a huge grain of salt.  Kids can speak for themselves.  Listen to us.  Don’t listen to some grownup who says they know what we want.  Don’t ever pretend to be one of us, cause you’re not. Definitely don’t listen to women who say they know what we want.  What’s with all these women taking care of us?  Can I talk to a man? Why do women always Peter Pan in plays and movies, anyway?  It’s not fair.  Peter Pan should be played by a boy! It’s all right to cry.  Boys cry too. It’s not fair that girls and women get to wear pants or skirts, but boys can’t wear skirts.  No, I don’t want a kilt. Yes, I know my name is Angus, I still don’t want a kilt. It’s not fair that girls can have long or short hair, but people make fun of me for having long hair. I just have long hair because my mom won’t cut it short enough. Sports are unfair. People shouldn’t watch horror movies because they’re scary and not real.  They should watch happy movies, and Star Wars. Girl chase is unfair to the girls. I refuse to chase girls. I won’t go inside the nursery school.  Stephanie, my teacher, wore tights yesterday. Boys can dance too.  They can’t be ballerinas, but they can be ballet dancers.  They can dance modern dance too, like my mom’s friend Dennis.  I want to dance, but I don’t want to be the only boy in the class. Miss Mary Mack and Miss Lucy and jump rope and jacks look like fun. They should let boys play too.  And yes, I’m aware that I sounded like a child.  I was one. Articles Media Personal news 12 things this gender-non-conforming child wanted you to know Pronouns matter. A few months ago I lost a friend over pronouns.  There were other factors, but the breaking point happened when this former friend was complaining about a neighbor of ours, a trans woman.  I agreed that it sounded like the woman was being a jerk, but after my former friend told me the story, she called her “it.” I asked her not to dehumanize our neighbor that way, things escalated, and I haven’t talked to her since.  I had to change a number of regular routines to avoid my former friend, and the whole experience was very upsetting, but I would do it again in an instant.  All for a neighbor who’s never said a word to me.  Sometimes pronouns are a big deal. I mention this now because there’s another case that’s a lot less clear-cut.  Last week I went to the vigil for Islan Nettles, who was murdered in Harlem.  I’ve been trying to figure out how lives like hers could be saved in the future, but Janet Mock is worried about pronouns, and her post has been going around the net, so I want to respond to it. My heart dropped each time I watched your face cringe with each misgendering. This is more than semantics, more than a family issue, this is our lives. We all know Islan was beaten to death because she fought hard to be Islan, to be she, to be her. We don’t all know that.  I didn’t know that at the time, so I asked.  .@SmartAssJen @JanetMock I'd appreciate it if people who object to Nettles being called "he" gave proof that Nettles herself objected to it. — Angus B Grieve-Smith (@grievesmith) August 28, 2013  Jen Richards was angry:  .@grievesmith @janetmock Islan was murdered because she was a trans woman. Your call for 'proof' is a distraction and hurtful. Stop. — Jen Richards (@SmartAssJen) August 28, 2013  Laverne Cox told the Huffington Post: I know as a trans woman, and I think so many trans women in the audience understand, that when we’re misgendered, that is an act of violence for us. It’s a part of the violence that lead to Islan’s death. No.  Misgendering can be a whole range of things, from an honest mistake to incitement to violence, but in itself it is not an act of violence.  It’s not part of the cause of Islan Nettles’ death.  Nettles was not murdered because she was a trans woman.  Here’s what the New York Post reported: Paris Wilson, 20, is said to have made a pass at Nettles and was shocked to learn she was not born a woman, sources said. Humiliated in front of his crew, Wilson then got into a heated argument with Nettles and the other women, hurling derogatory slurs at the group. The two eventually came to blows, but Wilson eventually overpowered Nettles, beating her to a pulp, sources said. The problem with Richards’s argument – and with Mock’s – is that you don’t have to use female pronouns for this to happen to you.  It happened to B. Scott in 2009: I was just called a faggot by Lewis Dix Jr. of the Jamie Foxx @Foxxhole radio show because he saw me and was confused/attracted. […] people don’t know what gays like me go thru. he came from across the room to speak to me cuz he was attracted and then I said I was a man. If this had been at a different kind of party – if it had happened on the corner of 148th and Bradhurst, with a violent enough person – B. Scott might have been killed that night.  It wouldn’t have been because he was a trans woman, because Scott called himself a man right then.  It wouldn’t have been because of pronouns, because Scott doesn’t reject “he” pronouns. Scott has recently begun identifying as trans, and a few weeks ago I gave props to Mock for accepting him as such, even when Monica Roberts wouldn’t.  But she stopped short of identifying him as a “trans woman.” My wife pointed out that this happens to non-trans women as well.  If a man finds out that a woman he’s attracted to is lesbian or that she not interested in him, or if she responds in the “wrong” way, he can feel humiliated and take it out on her. There’s a whole range between B. Scott’s 2009 presentation and pronouns and Janet Mock’s current presentation and pronouns.  Ultimately, the “right” pronouns are not the matter of faith that Mock makes them out to be.  It’s not “trans woman” = “she” pronouns.  It’s what the person wants.  It’s respectful to use “she” pronouns for Chelsea Manning because Chelsea Manning told her lawyer to tell everyone to use “she” pronouns. Some people want one set of pronouns, some want another, some don’t care.  When I present as a woman I prefer “she” pronouns, but if I were killed in a dress I would expect (and prefer) that my family and most of my friends would use “he” pronouns, because that’s how they’ve known me. From what I’ve heard it sounds like Nettles’ pronoun preference was closer to Mock’s, but it’s not obvious that she would have objected to anyone using “he” pronouns, especially not her family, and maybe not even a certain well-meaning but clueless Gay Man of African Descent.  That’s why I asked for some evidence that she cared. Here we have someone who wasn’t murdered for pronouns and didn’t necessarily object to her family using “he” pronouns.  We have a family who says they’re ready to fight for justice and community leaders who say they want safety for all. The intent of the pronoun user matters as well.  When my former friend referred to our neighbor as “it,” I could hear the hate in her voice.  In Delores Nettles we have a woman who has shown she is ready to fight for justice for her child, and we tell her that she’s not doing it right because she said “he was a beautiful woman,” instead of “she was a beautiful woman”? Those of you who are putting the focus on pronouns: I want to know how you think pronouns are the solution.  You’ve already schooled Vaughn Taylor.  Suppose that tomorrow you could get everyone on that stage, in that park, to switch to “she” pronouns forever, just the way you want.  Suppose you could do that for everyone in Harlem, in New York, in the whole country.  What would that accomplish? Please tell me how “she” pronouns would have saved Islan Nettles’ life, when so many unquestioned “shes” have been killed in Harlem.  I’m looking forward to your evidence.  I’ve got a Ph.D. in language change, and I’d be happy to help guide your research if you need it. I completely understand if Mock, Richards and a lot of other trans people were carried away by the anger and frustration they felt at the moment.  But if we want to actually solve this problem and save lives in the future, we have to put the pronoun issue in perspective.  This is not about pronouns, or about being accepted as women. This is a danger for transitioned trans women like Nettles, but not for trans women alone.  Trans women don’t own Islan Nettles’ murder, they don’t own murders of gender-non-conforming people, and they don’t own murders of women.  Transitioned trans women don’t know how to make Harlem safe, and they don’t have the right to dictate other people’s response to this tragic killing. I hope that Mock and Cox will back off the pronoun agenda and refocus their efforts on building safe, welcoming communities for all women and gender-non-conforming people.  And I hope that everyone who’s reblogged and linked Mock’s post will now re-read the New York Post‘s description of the events leading up to the murder of Islan Nettles – or any other detailed account – and try to think of one thing that might have prevented it.  And write that up, too.  Thanks. Articles Categorization Media pronouns Verbal Hygiene Violence Not because she was a trans woman On Wednesday I went to a vigil in Harlem for Islan Nettles (pronounced [i’lan]).  Earlier this month, a young man named Paris Wilson saw Nettles as an attractive woman and flirted with her.  He then decided that she was “really a man” and felt humiliated in front of his friends.  He attacked her, first verbally and then with his fists, hitting her until he smashed her skull.  She died a few days later. “this is not going to happen again… we’re going to get some justice”-Delores Nettles. Image: NY1It was important for me to go to that vigil.  This is a danger that I face, as someone who may sometimes be seen as a man in a dress.  As a white person who lives in Queens and goes out in Manhattan, my danger is much lower than those faced by nonwhite people who live and go out in poor neighborhoods, but I deserve better, and people like Islan Nettles deserve as much safety as I do. I was moved to see Nettles’ mother, sister and uncle stand on stage and demand justice for their loved one, with the silent support of many other family members.  I was gratified that politicians like Scott Stringer and Inez Dickens helped to get space in Jackie Robinson Park at such short notice, and then stood with us in the crowd instead of dominating the stage.  I was glad to see lesbian and gay religious leaders call out their colleagues for their lack of support.  I appreciated seeing nonwhite trans women like Chanel Lopez and Laverne Cox take the stage for justice and safety. There were aspects of the event that concerned me.  The event was run by relatively gender-conforming lesbians and gay men, who might not have been able to completely appreciate the specific dangers faced by black trans women like Nettles.  There was an older queen who was presented as a friend of Nettles, but their relationship wasn’t entirely clear to me.  Was she Nettles’ gay aunt?  Or just an acquaintance? Overall I came away heartened to see that many people coming together for justice and safety.  I’ve occasionally worried, if I were murdered, how many people would care about some trans person?  Seeing hundreds of people at this vigil was a bit reassuring. There were a number of trans people in the audience who were heckling the stage.  Some said, “Let the trans people speak!”  Some corrected gender references made by people on stage, yelling “she!” when someone said “he,” and “woman!” when someone said “man.”  This has become a major issue, and I’ll write about it soon, but I wanted to give some background first. Articles General News Media pronouns Violence More on the vigil for Islan Nettles It was a moving experience this evening to attend the vigil for Islan Nettles, who was brutally murdered in Harlem on August 17.  I fear for my own life sometimes, even though I know that the risk I take in being publicly transgender as a white person who’s seen as male most of the time is nothing compared to the risk to black and Latina trans women, who make up the vast majority of trans murder victims in the United States. One speaker remarked on the hundreds of people gathered and said, “It shouldn’t take something like this to bring people together.”  This resonated with a thought I had when I arrived in Jackie Robinson Park: when was the last time there was such a big gathering of LGBT people in Harlem?  When was there such a large trans-friendly space there?  When was there so much overt (if silent) official approval for a transgender event? For years, people from Harlem have had to take the subway downtown to show their gay and trans sides.  In 2013, with crime at historic lows, this should not be necessary.  Harlem should be a place where trans people can be free to dress as we want, without being attacked. The vigil was just a few blocks from where Nettles was beaten to death by Paris Wilson.  It made me wonder whether Wilson and his friends would have felt quite so threatened by Nettles – and so confident in attacking her – if they saw more support for trans people from their community leaders.  Would a regular, positive, trans-friendly event have made a difference, and could it make a difference in the future?  Then I looked over at my friend Brendan Fay who was standing nearby, and I realized I had proof that these positive events work.  Fourteen years ago, Brendan got frustrated with the homophobes who refused to allow the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization to march with a banner in the Fifth Avenue Saint Patrick’s Day Parade.  He organized the first annual Saint Pat’s for All Parade in my neighborhood, and has been helping run it ever since.  And it’s been bringing the neighborhood together. Another friend and neighbor of mine is a devout Catholic, who saw the parade as an attack on Catholics.  After he wrote a letter to a local newspaper a few years ago complaining about the parade, I spoke to him privately and told him that I’m a transvestite (yes, I used that word) and that when I moved to Woodside from the South Bronx I worried that I would feel just as unwelcome here as I did there.  For me the parade changed all that.  I saw all my neighbors, of all sexualities and genders, coming out to watch the parade, and I felt like they accepted me.  I felt like I belonged. I told my friend that I saw the parade as a celebration for the whole neighborhood, not just for LGBT people.  I said that he and his friends would be welcome to march in it.  He asked, “Could I march with a pro-life banner?”  I thought that would be a little too divisive, and Brendan confirmed that it would be, but that Catholic organizations with unifying messages were welcome. Recently, when I posted on Facebook that I was feeling frustrated with certain trans “community leaders,” my friend wrote this comment: “All I can state here is that you have done more to bridge the divide between trans people and the rest of society than any one I have known or met, turning people from prejudice to understanding of the complex issues involved, so rather than be upset at you, I hope praise will be in the offering.”  High praise indeed, but I had help from Brendan and everyone else who organized the parade. This year, in the supermarket, on the day of the parade another neighbor made a comment about “them” getting married, and I told her that I was a transvestite, and that much the parade made me feel welcome.  Her face changed, and she answered, “As well you should!” I hope that Harlem can learn from the successes that Brendan and I have had in Woodside.  I hope they can have positive events that bring the community together: trans and non-trans; gay, lesbian, bisexual and straight.  I hope that community leaders (and that includes religious leaders, and not just the LGBT ones who were a strong presence at this vigil) can take part and bring people together.  We all deserve to feel safer, and black people deserve to feel as safe as anyone else. Articles General News Violence Something to bring people together Some trans activists fight for easy name and gender changes on official documents.  Some fight for access to responsible, professional medical care, or for hormones and surgery to be covered by insurance or government programs.  My main goal is for us to have access to bathrooms and changing spaces without getting the shit beaten out of us.  And that’s why I’m asking you not to vote for Christine Quinn for Mayor of New York City. A trans woman walks into a McDonald’s and asks to use the women’s bathroom.  While she’s in there, someone yells at her “I’m going to kill you, faggot.”  She goes out of the bathroom, and discovers that it was the store manager yelling at her, and he hits her with a lead pipe.  One of her friends calls the police, but when they come they arrest the trans woman instead, on accusations from the store manager.  Maybe this sounds like something that happens in Texas, or Wyoming, but in 2006 a woman, Christina Sforza, claimed that it happened to her right here in New York City, across from the Empire State Building, in the City Council district of Christine Quinn.  Trans community leaders and Amnesty International took the story seriously. The Sylvia Rivera Law Project put out an alert on October 11, 2006, and I contacted Quinn shortly after that.  She did not have a public email address, so I contacted her through a form on her Council website.  I got no response for two weeks, until I got a broadcast email from Quinn’s office about a New Jersey Supreme Court decision on gay marriage.  Frustrated, I replied to that email, only to get an auto-reply telling me to fill out the form.  I filled out the form again, and got an email from Quinn’s chief of staff saying, “I would love to hear more so that I could have a staff member work with you.”  Encouraged, I wrote back with more details. The Amnesty report says, “Christine Quinn, New York City Council Speaker, reportedly intervened in October 2006 and Christina Sforza was finally able to file a criminal complaint.”  I don’t know what this intervention is, but apparently nothing has come of it. Since then, I have heard nothing from Quinn’s office on this issue.  I have, however, gotten regular email updates:  1 criticizing the arrests of “young transgender individuals” in the Port Authority bus terminal bathrooms 1 supporting birth certificate gender changes 1 supporting streamlining transgender marriage bureaucracy 1 inviting me to a “Trans Reality Panel” sponsored by the Empire State Pride Agenda 1 supporting GENDA, the state Gender Non-Discrimination Act 8 annual invitations to the Council LGBT Pride ceremony 1 inviting me to my neighborhood LGBT-inclusive Saint Patrick’s Day parade 3 on hate crimes attacks on gay men 1 on free self-defense trainings 5 on Hurricane Sandy (including 1 on a “LGBT Day of Action” for Sandy victims) 1 inviting me to a hearing on the experiences of LGBTQ youth in the juvenile justice system 1 praising a speech by Hilary Clinton on LGBT rights 1 on a LGBT Advisory Committee to the NYPD 1 on LGBT rights in Uganda 1 on LGBT rights in Russia  Every so often over the past seven years, I’ve tried to think of some reason for Quinn’s silence on this issue.  Did her staff find some reason to doubt Sforza’s story?  Was there something else that made Sforza a difficult victim to champion? It doesn’t matter.  We’ve heard Sforza’s story, and we know that trans people do get attacked in bathrooms – as we saw on video in Maryland in 2011. I was deeply unsettled to hear Sforza’s story.  It could have been me.  I’ve been in that McDonald’s.  When we hear reports of a horrific attack that could have happened to us, we want to know that justice is being done.  Even if someone found out that Sforza made up the whole thing, it would still have been very reassuring to have a statement from McDonald’s that that kind of behavior is not tolerated from their employees.  I would feel much better to hear from the NYPD that they take our rights seriously and will protect us if someone tries to punish us for peeing. I would like to know that someone on Quinn’s staff took my safety in her district as seriously as they do someone’s birth certificate or marriage license, or the rights of people on the other side of the world.  All the ceremonies and parades are meaningless if we can’t use the bathroom without the fear of being beaten. When Quinn was first elected I was excited at the news of our first out lesbian city council member.  I knew she cared about lesbian rights, and I hoped that that would carry over to transgender rights.  I was disappointed. This is why I will not vote for Christine Quinn if I see her name on a ballot, and why I’m asking you to vote for anybody but her on September 10.  We can do better. Articles Bathrooms Violence Anybody but Christine Quinn for Mayor Sometimes I’ll ask self-appointed trans “community leaders” – who act like they’re speaking for all trans people – to let the world know that non-transitioners exist, and we have needs, and they’ll bust out something like, “oh yes, and nonbinary people too!” (Last year it was “genderqueer people too!” Sometimes now they add “genderfluid.”) It makes me feel like Elwood Blues when the bartender tells him, “We’ve got both kinds! We’ve got Country and Western!”  The thing is, I’m not really nonbinary – at least not in the sense that “my spirit truly lies somewhere in between,” as B. Scott so eloquently put it. My ideas of “guy” and “woman” are fairly non-traditional: I’m a guy who cries and cooks and earns less than my wife and stays home with the kid. When I want to be a woman, I want to be a smart, thoughtful woman. But I don’t want to be in between.  Not that there’s anything wrong with that! It just doesn’t capture how I personally feel about myself. I want to be a guy, except when I want to be a woman. I want to look like a woman, except when I want to look like a guy. Do I look non-binary to you? I’m not genderqueer: my performance of either gender is not intended to provoke or challenge.  I’m not agender.  I’m not a “closeted trans woman” in ciscritical-not-cisphobic’s attempt to pigeonhole us.  I’m not a member of a “third sex,” and I don’t want to be.  And no, “genderfluid” doesn’t work for me, either.  (I’ll say something about that in another post.) I am transgender. I have the same feelings and beliefs as a lot of trans people who have successfully transitioned. There is one difference: I chose not to transition. Trans, but not transitioning. Why can’t they say that? Articles Categorization Verbal Hygiene Breaking down the binary/non-binary binary I was first referred to Monica Roberts for her explanations of why RuPaul doesn’t count as trans.  A few months later I asked a gay black man about trans self-identification in black communities, and he pointed me to Roberts. I was, honestly, more convinced by the assertion (I don’t know if it’s true or not) that RuPaul rejects the term “transgender” for himself.  Whether or not he counts as trans, I think Roberts made a strong case that he is not a prototypical black trans person, or an appropriate community spokesperson.  It seems like she wasn’t content with that, and insisted on excluding RuPaul completely from the category of trans.  She has now taken it upon herself to do the same for another person who is not even claiming to speak for trans people, B. Scott.  I first heard of Scott last night when someone reposted a blog post of his on Tumblr; apparently he’s an entertainment journalist who does news, commentary and interviews on his blog, as well as a YouTube channel and podcast, but has branched out into more established media. Scott identifies as a “proud gay man,” but his public persona is so high-glam femme that he is often perceived as a beautiful woman.  At least one man felt embarrassed after trying to flirt with Scott, and lashed out in an immature way. The current controversy started in June when Scott had been invited to appear at the 2013 BET Awards Pre-Show.  He claims that at the last minute, after extensive wardrobe negotiations (people do this?) and interviewing one guest on camera, the BET staffers told him his outfit “wasn’t acceptable,” ordered him to change, and then told him he was being replaced for the rest of the pre-show. Scott is now suing the network for “discrimination on the basis of gender identity, gender expression and sexual orientation.”  In yesterday’s blog post, he wrote, Over the years my love muffins and strangers alike have questioned me about my gender identity. What IS B. Scott? As a society we’ve been conditioned to believe that a person has to be ‘exactly’ this or ‘exactly’ that. Biologically, I am male — as my sex was determined at birth by my reproductive organs. However, my spirit truly lies somewhere in between. It is that same spirit that has allowed me to become so comfortable in my skin, choose how I express myself, and contributes to how I live my day-to-day life. Transgender is the state of one’s gender identity (self-identification as woman, man, neither or both) not matching one’s assigned sex (identification by others as male, female or intersex based on physical/genetic sex). [source] It is by that definition that I accept and welcome the ‘transgender’ label with open arms. Makes sense, right? Scott self-identifies as “somewhere in between,” which counts as “neither or both,” and doesn’t match his assigned male sex.  But that’s not enough for Monica Roberts:  When B Scott starts taking hormones,  calling himself Brittany(or another femme name starting with 'B')& declares he's transitioning (con't) — Monica Roberts (@TransGriot) August 7, 2013   then I'll consider him part of Team Trans. — Monica Roberts (@TransGriot) August 7, 2013   Conflating being #trans with being androgynous like B Scott is NOT the same — Monica Roberts (@TransGriot) August 7, 2013  Roberts’ reaction is really problematic.  What bothers me the most is that she is prescribing and delineating appropriate transgender actions.  It’s not enough for Scott to appear in heavy makeup, long hair and women’s clothes and shoes every time he is in front of a camera.  He has to take hormones, declare a transition, and adopt a name that Roberts approves as feminine enough.  As I wrote back in April, there are at least three conflicting definitions of transgender.  Roberts is saying that in order for her to consider him trans, Scott has to follow her prescriptions. Another thing that bothers me is that Roberts is not only claiming the right to define transgender, but the right to define the umbrella.  The “umbrella” definition of transgender is an inclusive one that brings in drag queens and anyone else who’s remotely gender-variant.  As umbrella proponent Jamison Green famously said, “There is NOT one way to be trans.”  Many prescriptive trans advocates explicitly reject the umbrella, many (like GLAAD) switch between the umbrella and their prescriptions, but Roberts claims that the umbrella is her prescriptions. In a subsequent blog post, Roberts clarified that she worried that this identification was purely a legal strategy, and that Scott was only “embracing the transgender umbrella after resisting it for years.” “Until I get and see more evidence that B.Scott’s embrace of the transgender umbrella is genuine, permanent and not just related to this legal case, call me skeptical.” Roberts knows a lot more about American black culture’s attitudes towards transness than I do, but I would be surprised if a gay black man who grooms himself like a woman and is often perceived as a woman would face very much less discrimination and harassment than a transitioning black trans woman.  How often is Scott really able to draw on his male privilege? Based on her reactions to RuPaul, my guess is that Roberts is worried that with his large following, Scott could emerge as a powerful trans leader and spokesperson without transitioning, eclipsing her own influence and those of other transitioned black trans people like Janet Mock* and Laverne Cox.  Personally, I would welcome an influential non-transitioning trans person of any race to the cause.  Any creative responses to trans feelings would be a relief from the relentless hormones-surgery-name-change drumbeat put out by Roberts, Mock and other trans spokespeople.  And the transition buy-in that Roberts values so much doesn’t stop her from being divisive and exclusionary. But regardless of whether you trust Scott to be true to the trans community, Roberts’ heavy-handed prescriptivism should alarm not just advocates of transgender inclusivity, but also feminists of all stripes.  And her claiming the right to not just define transgender but to take the transgender umbrella away from us is just uncalled for. (*Update: In this sympathetic interview, Janet Mock makes it clear that she’s not into that kind of boundary policing.) Articles Categorization General News Media Verbal Hygiene Hands off my umbrella! I have real reasons to be happy about my excursion on Saturday.  I have a great friend.  My co-workers are super cool.  But that’s not how gender fog works with me.  Instead, it keeps me up all night thinking about things like this: I’m so hot. Don’t you think I’m hot?  I’m in soft focus.  I’ve lost so much weight! I wonder if I’m a 38C or a 36D. That guy who held the door for me totally didn’t read me. I bet nobody did! I definitely fit in with all those cute tourist women.  I was prettier than a lot of them. I could rock the dress that woman was wearing on the subway yesterday. Would the brown skirt I bought go better with a black top or a white one? I so want to go out in that green dress. Maybe this weekend. Can I get the time off? Makeup is such a pain. I wonder how much laser costs. Can I really wear a strappy sundress? I’d definitely need to get rid of my T-shirt tan lines first. I could have gone to work in a dress yesterday. No, maybe that wouldn’t be a good idea. Well, at least I could’ve gone to the coffee shop in a dress. Who cares what my neighbors think? Is my video camera good enough to make a haul video? Articles Feelings Gender fog Glamour Personal news What’s keeping me awake at night A number of my trans friends and non-trans allies have been tweeting and reblogging last week’s BuzzFeed post by Sarah Kasulke and Chris Ritter, “Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Transgender People But Were Afraid To Ask,” with the subtitle, “It’s cool, we know you have questions.” It’s been a struggle to explain exactly what bothers me so much about that piece. I’ve taken a stab at explaining the general problem with these two pages, A Skeptic’s Trans 101 and Before You Reblog, but I haven’t addressed the BuzzFeed post specifically. The first problem with Kasulke’s post is that it’s not everything you always wanted to know about trans people but were afraid to ask. It’s just the latest version of the same old trans dogma dressed up as a Q&A. Here are some things she focuses on that are just not burning questions in people’s minds:  Should I say “transgender” or “transgendered”? What do all these fancy words you keep using mean? Am I a horrible person for being skeptical of this true inside gender you claim? I haven’t heard nearly enough about hormones from trans people. Please tell me more! There are genders besides boy or girl? Are drag queens transgender? Should I use the pronouns you clearly want to hear, or the ones I want to say? Do people ever get upset when someone calls them “it”? Should I call trans people shemales?  No, the things that everyone always wants to know about trans people are more like this:  Are you a man or a woman? So you’re gay? Have you had the surgery? What happens during the surgery? How do you have sex? Are those real? How do you hide it? Why would you do this to yourself? Isn’t there some kind of therapy for this? Can’t you just be a butch lesbian? What does your mom think? What do your kids call you? Is your wife really okay with it? Can I have sex with you? Not because I like you, but just to satisfy my own curiosity and then move on to a real woman?  and yes:  What is your real name?  I’m not saying that anyone deserves answers to these questions. But the genius of David Reuben’s original book Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex (but Were Afraid to Ask) is that it took a topic where there was so much shame and prudery, chose questions that were actually in people’s minds, and answered them without moralizing. It was a breath of fresh air after the tedium and taboo of what had passed for sex education before. Kasulke and Ritter’s piece reads more like the books that Reuben was reacting to. It’s full of moralizing, shame and taboo. If someone’s afraid to ask “what’s your real name?” how are they going to feel after reading Ritter’s slide? Despite Kasulke’s subtitle, she clearly doesn’t think it’s cool to have questions like that, and she’s not going to answer them. I’ll tell you what: I’ll answer your questions. If you read my Skeptic’s Trans 101 and still have questions, poke around on the site a bit. If you still have questions, email me. And if you see a post like Kasulke and Ritter’s, please check my list before you forward it. Update: Two weeks after I posted this response, Kasulke (now Calvin Kasulke) posted “17 Questions Trans People Are Tired of Hearing.”  I don’t know how much BuzzFeed paid him, but I’m still waiting for my cut. Articles Media Everything you really wanted to know about trans people You may have heard about “gender fog.” Also known as “pink fog,” “pink cloud” or “gender euphoria,” it’s an intense emotion that many transgender people experience around a significant event.  I used to get it when I tried on a new outfit, particularly a kind that I had fantasized about (when I was a teenager, that involved short skirts and nylons).  Now it mostly happens when I go out in public presenting as a woman.  This excitement is relative, and it depends on how much I’m used to the activity.  If I haven’t cross-dressed at all in months, I may feel some gender fog just at cross-dressing.  The same thing for shaving or haircuts, or new outfits.  If I’ve been cross-dressing a lot, and shaving and maybe even getting new outfits on a regular basis, I don’t get as excited.  Since I haven’t been going out cross-dressed very much lately, just going out can bring on very intense euphoria. For me, gender fog generally starts as soon as I make plans to go out.  I get insomnia, where instead of sleeping I lie in bed thinking about what I’m going to wear, where I’m going to change, whether I’m going to meet up with anyone, when I’m going to leave, where I’m going to shop and what I’m going to buy, whether I’ll have a meal, and so forth.  I dwell on potential problems, mostly around passing: is my makeup technique good enough to cover my beard?  Is my belly too big?  Are my shoulders too broad?  Will it be too hot to wear a dress that flatters my figure?  Have I been practicing my voice enough?  Will my sinuses be clear enough? When I finish changing and actually go out in public, I usually get very excited.  Then, since whatever activity I do in public lasts several hours (otherwise it’s not really worth putting on all the makeup), at some point in the day or evening I’ll feel kind of tired or bored, and think, “I could be doing this in guy clothes, and it’d be a lot easier.”  But then there will usually be something else interesting or fun that happens.  I’m typically tired at the end of the trip, and sometimes I sleep very well for several nights afterwards. The post-event gender fog usually involves some experience that made me happy, usually because it confirms my role as a woman.  Because of this, many of these involve passing or acceptance.  I got a cute outfit.  I used my female voice for the first time.  A guard directed me to the women’s room in Rockefeller Center.  A waiter flirted with me.  A transitioned trans woman briefly thought I was a non-trans woman.  A woman complimented my look.  I went to an interesting part of the city or event that I’d never been to as a woman.  Or maybe it was just the experience of walking through the city, being accepted as one of the women. After the experience, I find myself dwelling on it, thinking about how I could repeat or extend it.  If I got a cute outfit, I think about wearing it at home, or on a future outing.  Maybe I think about future outfits.  If it’s an interaction, I think about other interactions.  If it’s a place, I think about going back to that place, or to other places.  I also may think about things that were time-consuming or inconvenient, and about ways that I could make them easier. If I had a really good time or if I did something really new for me, I may be high for days, thinking about nothing but my experience.  My wife and friends get really tired of hearing about it.  I have trouble concentrating at work.  I may plan to go out again, sooner than I had originally thought.  I may think about more “soft body mods,” like ear piercing, growing my hair or permanent leg or facial hair removal. The gender fog always lasts for several days after the event.  Usually I use ten days as a rule of thumb, although if I ever go out more than once in a ten-day period the excitement is compounded. Yesterday I went out in public, and I’m definitely feeling the gender fog.  It’s not as intense as it has been at some times.  I had trouble sleeping the night before, and I was expecting to sleep better last night, but I had similar difficulties.  On the other hand, my difficulty sleeping may be unrelated to this experience.  I’ve been having insomnia lately anyway, and the heat doesn’t help. Some of you may be scoffing at this.  If you transitioned years ago and have been living a quiet life as your target gender, then yes you probably don’t have experiences like this.  Similarly if you’ve got a stable genderqueer or genderfluid existence.  If you’re transitioning then your outings are probably more extensive, frequent and social than my shopping trips.  But I’ve seen transitioners have similar reactions to other milestones, particularly relating to hormonal body modifications and legal and social acceptance.  I’m guessing that you’ve all had some feeling like this. Articles Feelings Gender fog Personal news Gender fog I was raised by beatniks in the seventies, and regularly told to be myself.  I agreed with this and lived it, and it got me into trouble.  I would fight with kids when they told me not to cry, and get punished in school for refusing an assignment that felt too conformist. In high school one of my classmates went on a long rant about plaid.  The next day I dressed for school in a plaid shirt and a homemade button that said “Plaid Rules!  If you don’t like it, FUCK OFF!”  (I then thought better of it and covered it with a piece of paper that just said “Plaid Rules!” but he ripped the paper off.) The point of all this is that I had no trouble showing my true self to people, and never have.  When I started trying on my sister’s clothes in junior high it was not about identity, it was about loneliness, jealousy and fear. There is a story trans people like to tell, that gender expression is about bringing out the “authentic self” that we’ve been hiding from others all our lives.  This is a cousin of the “woman trapped in a man’s body” story that was popular in the late twentieth century.  It’s at best a gross oversimplification of the little we know about the diverse and variable motivations for unexpected gender expression. Some people talk about my feminine expression as a different person: “When are we going to see Andrea again?  Have they met Andrea yet?”  I do use a different name and pronouns, and speak and move differently, when I’m wearing a skirt and make-up.  But this is not because I am “really” Andrea inside.  It’s because I want people interacting with me to have a consistent experience. The fact is that I feel like the same person no matter what I’m wearing.  Maybe if I’m wearing a dress I can express some things I can’t express when people see me as a guy, but that’s true the other way too.  Is my true self just too big to fit in one gender? If it’s not to express my true self, why do I want people to see me as a woman?  Honestly, I don’t know, and I don’t know why it matters.  All I know is that I treat myself and the people around me with respect and compassion no matter what I’m wearing, and that’s all that should matter. Part of treating people with respect and compassion is taking their gender presentation at face value.  If someone sends me a signal that they want to be treated as a man I’ll treat them as a man.  I don’t need to know whether their true self is a man or not.   Does this mean that my authentic self has no gender?  Probably.  But am I then part of a small minority, in a world full of strongly gendered selves?  My conversations with other people suggest otherwise.  I’ve known transitioners who were similarly non-conforming before transition, and some who, before transitioning, identified strongly with their assigned genders. I strongly suspect that the authentic self has no gender.  Trans people have a variety of reasons for transitioning – or not.  “Being your true self” is either a convenient fiction, like “I’m a man trapped in a woman’s body,” or a religious belief, like “God made me trans.”  This particular one resonates with people raised with be-yourself values. These destiny statements are very useful for transitioners, giving them a story that satisfies at least some of the doubters, and may even quiet their own doubts.  They’re not so good for non-transitioners and genderfluid people like me.  They do a special disservice to people who are trying to decide whether transition is right for them.  Please think about all of us the next time you’re tempted to repeat one of them. Articles Beliefs Does the Authentic Self even have a gender? How we use gender:  Every society we know of assigns people to genders.  Usually this is “man” or “woman,” depending on the way their genitals look at birth.  Some societies have a third gender that involves a combination of the roles of the male and female genders. Most people have the habit of classifying everyone they meet into one gender or another. Often this is reflected in aspects of language such as pronouns.  Some languages, like French, even assign gender to inanimate objects. Every society we know of reserves certain roles, spaces and relationships for the exclusive use of one gender or the other, such as jobs, bathrooms and marriages.  In these situations, gender is always a shortcut for some harder-to measure criterion, like strength or the ability to bear children. Every society we know of has gender expression: ways that people identify themselves as one gender or another.  Some of these are behavioral, involving habits of speaking or moving.  Others involve clothing, accessories and grooming.  How we react to gender:  Everyone has feelings about their gender.  Many people have transgender feelings: a desire to be a gender different from the one assigned to them.  Many people have gender dysphoria: discomfort with the gender they were assigned. Everyone has beliefs about their own gender.  Some people have transgender beliefs that conflict with the gender they were assigned. Some people take transgender actions: they are assigned to one gender but take on expressions, spaces and roles that their culture reserves for another gender.  These gender expressions may include modifying their bodies in various ways.  How to respect gender:  You will meet people who have strong feelings about their gender.  Be sympathetic. You will meet people whose beliefs about their gender differ from yours.  Respect their beliefs, and expect that they will respect yours. You will meet people who express gender differently from the way you expect. Respect them. You will meet people who want you to address and refer to them as a different gender than you might otherwise.  Honor their desire. It’s just words. You will meet people who you would normally assign to one gender, but who want to take on roles and spaces that your society reserves for a different gender.  Respect their wishes and accommodate them as much as possible.  How to help:  We hear lots of nasty things about people who violate gender norms. Say a few nice things. Some people attack people who violate gender norms. Protect people from these attacks. Some people discriminate against people who violate gender norms. Help balance that out. Some people spin myths about transgender feelings, thoughts and actions. Some of the most destructive myths are spun by people who are trying to help. Be skeptical, while still being respectful.  How to be skeptical while still being respectful:  Your beliefs – about gender and everything else – are your own. Don’t let anyone tell you what to believe. There’s a big diversity of gender feelings, beliefs and actions out there.  A story about a single person won’t tell you about everyone. We don’t hold elections.  Anyone who claims to speak on behalf of “the trans community” is lying. Lots of people hide their trans beliefs, feelings and actions. We don’t know about them. Anything about transgender issues that contains “most,” “all” or any percentage is probably wrong. Brain science is not at a point where it can tell us anything reliable. Anything about transgender issues that talks about specific parts of the brain is probably wrong. Most people desperately want to be normal, and are willing to lie to themselves and everyone else to feel normal. Anything that makes anyone look normal is probably wrong. Articles A Skeptic’s Transgender 101 In April I posted about a study by Stefan Baral and his colleagues at Johns Hopkins that purported to show that “Transgender Women 49 Times More Likely to Have HIV.”  Baral acknowledged in a comment (I have no reason to doubt that it’s really him) that “these are pretty bad stats!” but went on to say that he felt his publication would help trans communities in the long run, and pasted the limitations section that he had ignored in his statements to the Huffington Post. Claudia says that the police in Jackson Heights are much more respectful than in Hunts Point, focusing on keeping the overall area safe. “The men get rowdy, get drunk, and behave awfully. I don’t care if these women are men, nobody has a right to treat them like garbage.” See more photos by Chris Arnade in his Flickr set, and read some of the sex workers’ own stories. In theory I agree that it’s worth disseminating potentially inaccurate information if you believe that it’s going to help people regardless.  In practice it’s never easy to predict what effect your actions will have.  In this particular case, I think that reports like these do more harm than good for a very specific reason: they obscure important differences. Baral’s study was actually a “meta-study” that combined studies done in cities all over the world.  All of these studies investigated non-random samples of transgender people, usually focusing on subgroups that are at particular risk for violence or disease.  They all include disclaimers saying “NON-REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLE NO NO DO NOT GENERALIZE RESULTS!!!” One of the source studies turned out to be the study that I participated in here in New York, led by Larry Nuttbrock of the National Development and Research Institutes (NDRI).  In November I criticized the study for overgeneralizing, but as I mentioned in May, the study does reveal some important things, which may very well be found in other communities. In particular, the NDRI study reveals the deep divide here in New York between the lives of middle-class white trans people and lower-class black and Hispanic trans people.  The difference in HIV infection rates (3.5% vs. 48-50%) between the two groups of participants in the study is huge.  In another paper, the NDRI researchers indicate that HIV infection tends to correlate with unprotected anal sex, which in turn tends to correlate with gender abuse and symptoms of depression, as well as with attraction to men and nonwhite ethnicity. What that means, in turn, is that middle-class white trans people like me are not at significant risk for HIV infection, or gender abuse, or depression.  To use a fancy social science term, it’s intersectional: if you’re black or Latina, if you’re feminine, if you’re attracted to men, if you’re poor, if you’re a prostitute, it all adds to your risk.  And as Hwahng and Nuttbrock observed, it’s all about power: the power to say no to unprotected anal sex. That’s why you won’t see me using this study to get anything for myself.  These high HIV rates don’t apply to me.  I don’t deserve any of the money that governments and donors want to spend on it.  I don’t know which donors Baral is trying to convince, or what he wants them to spend the money on, but it shouldn’t be middle-class white people. This is not a problem of “trans women” or even of transgender people in general.  It is a problem of disempowered black and Latina transvestites, and it can only be solved by re-empowering them.  As Erica so eloquently put it, nihil de nobis sine nobis. Of course I’m concerned about these high HIV rates, because I care about my fellow transvestites, and my neighbors.  That’s why I’m prepared to act in support and solidarity, and I hope you are too.  But don’t talk to mainstream transgender organizations that aren’t doing anything about this issue.  Talk to organizations that empower sex workers of all genders, like the Red Umbrella Project. Articles Bad stats Bad stats, advocacy and HIV in trans communities Film director Lana Wachowski, whom I associate most with the Matrix, has now declared her gender transition.  I didn’t feel comfortable speculating when her transgender feelings were just a rumor, but now I can say that I see the Matrix as a deeply transgender movie.  Blogger Hannah DuVoix finds a number of trans themes in the movie, but dissociation and glamour are the two that make the biggest impression on me.  (There will be some spoilers here for those who haven’t yet seen it.) The Matrix is dissociative.  Dissociation is a psychological term for a particular kind of disconnect from reality, at least as others experience that reality.  Dissociation can range from plain old field-independence to a deeply held belief that “my” body is not my own.  One of its most extreme expressions is the dissociative fugue, where a person runs away and assumes a new identity, sometimes forgetting who they “really” are. I refuse to speak for all trans people, but my own trans feelings have always contained an element of dissociation, and I’ve seen and heard it from others.  A lot of my trans fantasies have involved some disconnection from my body.  When I was younger I used to fantasize about moving to a different city and taking on a completely new identity for myself.  Many trans people have done this, including the story of Holly Woodlawn as Lou Reed tells it in “Take a Walk on the Wild Side.” In the Matrix, these dissociative fantasies are reality.  When Neo takes the red pill, his entire reality is revealed to be an illusion, and he discovers his real body and the sensations that go with it.  He is not just a programmer, “Mr. Anderson,” in a dreary world.  He is something more, something where his “unreal” online identity is foregrounded.  The Matrix deals with glamour, and specifically the desire to own and control feminine glamour.  After Neo first disconnects from the Matrix, Morpheus takes him into a training program, a sandbox where he can demonstrate how the constructed world works.  He is distracted by “the woman in the red dress” (played by Fiona Johnson), who walks by, smirking flirtatiously, and then turns into an evil Agent pointing a gun at Neo. When Neo leaves the training program, his new shipmate Mouse slyly confides that he created the woman in the red dress, and that she’s available for other encounters.  It’s not exactly a secret that many trans people obsess over the glamour of their target gender, trying to discover and replicate its secrets. In her speech to the Human Rights Campaign, Wachowski talks about spending hours trying on dresses in the wardrobe closet of her high school drama club.  I have similar memories, and when I saw the Matrix I had spent the previous year and a half working on my own animated virtual women, one of whom was sort of blonde (and neither of whom turned out anywhere near as sexy as the Woman in the Red Dress).  Like Mouse – and Wachowski – I had very good reasons for doing it, but those reasons don’t preclude others. Again, I’m not saying that all trans people are dissociative or obsessed with the glamour of their target gender, but these are themes we hear from lots of trans people.  I wasn’t entirely surprised with the rumors and later revelations about Wachowski, because I had recognized a kindred spirit. Articles General News Glamour Media Were you looking at the woman in the red dress? Transgender politics is notoriously full of terminological arguments.  It’s an age-old expression of power: the right to decide which categories people get put in, who belongs and who doesn’t, who is condemned and who is spared, who is mocked and who is praised. These arguments are compounded by the problems that we humans have in categorizing anything in a way that we can agree on.  Last week I had a chance to talk with George Lakoff, who has done a lot to raise awareness of the problems with traditional definitions of categories, and he agreed that these problems have a greater impact when it comes to categorizing people. Because of this, I generally try to avoid talking about transgender people, and instead focus on trans feelings, beliefs and actions.  Unfortunately, the rest of the trans world hasn’t seen the value in this, and keeps arguing about how to categorize people.  One of the worst things people do is to apply their categories uncritically to people from other cultures at other times, without their approval or consent. This came up a few days ago when someone called Nat tweeted this:  The Stonewall Riots were 44 years ago today. Let's all remember they were started by trans women of colour, not rich white dudes in suits. — TheNatFantastic (@TheNatFantastic) June 28, 2013  As Nat explained to me, the target of this tweet was the organization Stonewall UK, which is apparently run by a bunch of rich white dudes in suits.  I agree that it’s problematic for an organization called Stonewall to be run by people who don’t look anything like the people who started the Stonewall Riots, but I objected to Nat’s use of “trans women” to describe the actual rioters. The people who started the Stonewall Riots did not call themselves “trans women of color.”  “Trans women” is a recent coinage, from the past ten years, and “of color” is only slightly older.  If they wanted to categorize themselves by race they were “black” (maybe “Negro”) and “Puerto Rican,” and if they categorized themselves by gender expression they were “transvestites” and “queens.”  After the riots, the organization that Sylvia Rivera founded was called the Street Transvestites Action Network.  (She later changed it to Street Transgender Action Network, but never to anything containing the term “trans women.”) Rioters at the Stonewall Inn, 1969.The problem with referring to the Stonewall activists as “trans women” is that that category is reserved for transitioners.  Some of the Stonewall veterans had partly transitioned, and some transitioned later (including Rivera), but many lived part time and never transitioned.  Would they transition if they were in their teens and twenties today?  Maybe, maybe not. Nat tweeted to me, “I was under the impression that trans* included -vestite?”  Yes, trans* includes -vestite. “Trans woman” does not – except when they’re co-opting us to get money or political support. When have you ever heard “trans woman” used to describe someone who’s not transitioning?  RuPaul has been explicitly excluded from the category – and apart from being wealthy she probably bears the greatest resemblance to the Stonewall rioters of any celebrity today.  If you can find a non-transitioner in any list of contemporary “trans women,” I’d love to see it.  I’ve never seen Eddie Izzard or Rye Silverman in one.  And in the few tweets I’ve read from @theNatFantastic, I’ve never seen a contemporary non-transitioner as a trans woman. So no, you don’t get to go around talking about “trans women” never mentioning a non-transitioner, and then turn around and claim non-transitioning heroes as “trans women.”  The Stonewall rioters were not trans women.  They were transvestites.  They’re my heroes, not yours. Here’s the kicker, which prompted Nat to tell me to “chill the fuck out”: there is a systematic exclusion of non-transitioners from the “trans community,” and “trans women” leaders are actively involved in this exclusion.  “Trans women” are doing exactly the same thing as Nat’s “rich white dudes in suits.”  Nat’s tweet was part of this exclusion. Maybe it’s because I sometimes look like a white dude in a suit, but I’ve found a lot more acceptance and support from rich white dudes in suits than I ever have from “trans women,” many of whom are rich and white and wear suits. Let’s all remember that the Stonewall Riots were started by Black and Puerto Rican transvestites.  Their legacy belongs to the world, but more to Black people, Puerto Ricans and transvestites than to the rest of us.  And most of all to Black and Puerto Rican transvestites, who still flock to Greenwich Village to this day.  Maybe we should let them decide what to do with it. Articles Categorization Verbal Hygiene “Trans women” and the erasure of transvestites Bathrooms are an important issue to me. When I present as a woman I use women’s bathrooms, and I want every trans person to have the right to choose their bathroom. But I realize that the desire some people have to exclude us from bathrooms is based on a legitimate concern. I heard this recently in a story from Afghanistan, where some people have made gender-segregated bathrooms a priority. Graduates of the Women’s Afghan National Police training course in Kandahar province, Afghanistan smile after receiving their ANP graduation certificates Aug. 5 at Camp Nathan Smith. Photo by Spc. Tracy R. Weeden / Isafmedia. In Afghanistan, crimes against women often go unpunished.  The Afghan government recognized that a major factor was the absence of female officers, and hired a number of new recruits. Now, many of those police officers are leaving, because they are being regularly attacked and raped. The most common locations for these assaults are the police station bathrooms, which are open to all genders. The female officers are most vulnerable when half-naked, performing involuntary bodily functions. The proposed solution, advocated by Human Rights Watch, is to institute women-only spaces, where a man would be automatically suspect. It’s too often overlooked that the shared bathrooms in no way cause the attacks. These attacks are deliberate acts of violence chosen by individuals, encouraged by a culture that dehumanizes women, and perpetuated by a legal system uninterested in bringing the perpetrators to justice. This story helps some of us understand why gender-segregated bathrooms exist in the first place. They are a kludge, a short cut to stop the worst abuses. And like all kludges, bathroom segregation doesn’t work one hundred percent. There are false positives – trans people who are denied access to the bathrooms that fit our presentation and marked when we use the others. Significantly, there are plenty of false negatives – men who walk right into segregated bathrooms and attack women without any claim to transgender status. A kludge may be necessary to break through a logjam. Think of the US Marshals who accompanied Ruby Bridges when she became the first Black student to attend William Frantz Elementary School. Segregated bathrooms may similarly be warranted in the case of the Afghan police. But just as integrated schools no longer require guards for every Black student, in some places segregated bathrooms may no longer be necessary. Twice when I was in college here in the US I lived on dormitory floors where the bathrooms were nominally reserved for a single gender, but the residents had voted unanimously to open them to all genders. When I was studying in Paris, the public bathrooms in the classroom buildings were similarly integrated, with all gender markings removed. Of course rape and voyeurism still exist in both the US and France, and in some places it may still be necessary to segregate bathrooms by gender. But the two experiences I mentioned suggest that in some situations respect for women’s rights and the rule of law is so secure that we no longer need the kludge of segregated bathrooms to protect women. Even in places where gender-segregated bathrooms are still deemed necessary, it is clear that people who want to rape, ogle or video women in bathrooms will do so if they think they can get away with it.  A small minority of them claim to be trans, probably because they actually are trans.  In the end, what really protects women in bathrooms is not ineffective attempts to keep trans people out of them, but strong enforcement of the laws against assault and voyeurism. Articles Bathrooms Kludges Segregated bathrooms are a kludge Steven Furtick, a Christian cleric who has publicly condemned homosexuality, has nevertheless come up with a great metaphor to help us understand insecurity.  One reason we struggle w/ insecurity: we’re comparing our behind the scenes to everyone else’s highlight reel. — Steven Furtick (@stevenfurtick) May 10, 2011 Building on Furtick’s metaphor, it occurred to me recently that glamour, as described by Virginia Postrel, is the desire to escape from our behind-the-scenes into someone else’s highlight reel.  After taking this picture of myself last week, I’m thinking that narcissism is the desire to escape from our behind-the-scenes into our own highlight reel. Articles Glamour Personal news Living in the highlight reel There’s a concept that I want to introduce here: visibility fatigue.  It’s something I’ve been noticing in relation to trans issues, and I’ll make those connections in future blog posts. I have a T-shirt that says, “MIND THE GAP” with the logo of the London Underground.  I bought it on a trip to London in 2001, when a recording of that phrase was played every fifteen seconds or so in stations that had a particularly large gap.  Back home in New York, one day I was out walking and a guy gave me a knowing look, smiled and said, “Nice shirt.” It seemed like he wanted to talk more, like we shared some great secret, but I was on my way somewhere else and didn’t really want to chat about it.  I realized at that moment that there’s probably thousands and thousands of people here in New York who’ve been to London, ridden the Underground and heard that phrase.  Did we really share that much that separated us from other New Yorkers?  At that moment I realized that I didn’t really want everyone I ran into on the street knowing I’d been to London.  I have another T-shirt that’s one of my prized possessions.  I got it at the 1996 Pride Rally, one of the first times I ever went out in public presenting as a woman.  One day I wore it to the gym around the block, and on the way there I happened to be walking alongside my neighbor Jim.  Jim asked me why I was wearing a big pink triangle if I’m married to a woman and we have a kid together.  I explained that I was a transvestite and answered a few more questions, and everything was cool. Most of the time, though, the shirt just sits on the shelf.  It’s not that I don’t want to be out, proud and visible.  It’s that I want some measure of control over it.  It was work explaining this stuff to Jim, and there was no guarantee that he would be as understanding as he was about it.  Sometimes I’m not up for that. At the Lavender Languages conference this year I attended a talk by the Moroccan-French-Canadian artist 2fik who does amazing and very provocative things with gender and identity.  He described some very hostile reactions he’s gotten – including death threats in at least one instance.  But as I remarked to him, at the end of the day he can take off his clothes.  He can have a break from being provocative. I’ve always wanted to keep that ability to have a break.  I grew up a long-haired boy in the seventies, and I remember that visibility fatigue – just wanting to blend in once in a while.  It figured into my decision not to transition: I had succeeded in being seen as a pretty young woman, and enjoyed that visibility in small doses, but understood why so many women find it frustrating.  I had also had the experience of not passing, and attracting attention that way.   I knew that most people have times during a transition when they don’t pass, and some never pass.  I didn’t want to be that visible all the time, with no rest in anonymity. My tolerance for visibility has also varied over the course of my life.  When I was younger I often felt a desire to be provocative.  Now I favor more subtle approaches.  I think that’s natural and good.  But I’m glad that I didn’t make choices when I was young that don’t work for me now. Some people have a lower tolerance for visibility and attention than I do.  Others, like my neighbor “La Loca,” have a greater tolerance.  If they want to use that visibility to teach people or just express their gender in a way that feels more comfortable, more power to them.  Especially if they don’t wind up committing to a level of visibility that they can’t sustain with comfort later on. In future posts I’ll show why I think visibility fatigue is important when talking about transgender lives. Articles Visibility fatigue In November I was annoyed with a couple of statements by Sel Hwahng, but after re-reading this article he co-authored with Larry Nuttbrock, I’ve decided that it’s really solid research and should be read by anyone who’s interested in public health – or trans politics in general. The Silver Swan, a popular hangout for “White cross-dressers” in the mid-00s. As I discussed in my earlier post, several years ago I participated in a study where I went to a storefront every month or so, gave a blood sample, and talked with a researcher for a while. Usually it was a fairly repetitive series of short-answer or Likert questions, but there were a few discussions that were more open-ended. Larry Nuttbrock was the principal investigator on the study, and I’m one of the “White cross-dressers” that he and Hwahng are talking about. Re-reading the article, I see that it was really only two lines that bothered me: These cross-dressers explained that because of their desire to maintain a traditional masculine gender role and hide their transgender status, they often did not undergo transition, hormonal supplementation, or surgery until well into their 40s or 50s. Transition often occurred after a domestic breakup, when they could be more out as transgender. It was definitely true that some of us really wanted to transition but felt trapped by commitments to work and family, but not all of us by any means. I personally decided that I didn’t want to transition years before I got married and had a child, and I haven’t changed my mind about it. Most of the other people I met in that scene showed no interest in transitioning. But this is relatively minor. Judging from media reports and health research, you might think that the trans population is either all HIV-infected prostitutes or all sexy young transitioners. I schlepped down to Avenue A every month and got pricked with a needle so that people could see another way to be trans. Hwahng and Nuttbrock show that here in New York there are at least three ways to be trans. They found that life was very different for us White cross-dressers than for Asian sex workers and members of the House Ball community. According to Hwahng and Nuttbrock, House Ball members, almost all from Black and Latin American backgrounds, were more likely to engage in survival sex work and to have little power to refuse sex or to insist on condoms. Members of my White cross-dresser community were largely able to avoid sex work if we chose, so “when White cross-dressers did engage in sex work, it was almost always for recreational purposes.” The Asian sex workers in the study had an intermediate level of power, often being able to insist on condoms and working in hotels and apartments instead of on the street. Given these different circumstances, it’s sadly not surprising that our risks of HIV infection are vastly different. In another paper co-authored by the entire study team, they didn’t have enough data about the Asian sex workers, but they reported that “HIV was 3.5% among Caucasian Americans compared to 49.6% and 48.1% among the Hispanics and African Americans.” It’s important to note here the limitations of the study. Nuttbrock and his colleagues were able to investigate these three trans communities, but they were aware of others: The study also identified additional groups, including the following: low-income, immigrant Latina(o) sex workers of Central and South American origin who solicited in Queens; low income, immigrant Latina(o) sex workers who solicited in Manhattan; and low-income, immigrant South Asian transvestites in Manhattan, Queens, and New Jersey. Not enough data had been gathered at this writing, however, for detailed analyses of these other populations. Some study participants did not fit any of these ethnocultural contexts but did not constitute large numbers and were thus considered outlier data. This is really key. We don’t know what we don’t know. There could be some population of wealthy South Asian transvestites that completely swamps all three of the other groups numerically, but that was invisible to Hwahng and Nuttbrock because they meet in secret in luxury condo towers. Not that likely, but nobody really knows. I’ll close with a great quote from the report: To understand the complex, interlocking behavioral and sociostructural determinants of health that often remain hidden within the geographic location of the New York City metropolitan area, it is thus imperative to examine as many divergent ethnocultural transgender communities as possible. Articles Good research Good research: Three trans communities in New York City Last month I highlighted some good research done by Lal Zimman at the University of Colorado, where he found two conceptions of coming out among trans people that were very different from the way the term is used by lesbians and gay men.  In the comments, my friend Caprice Bellefleur hit on the next point that I was going to make: that there’s a fourth way that coming out is used. There is a further complication about the use of the term “coming out” among trans people. Many, especially those who identify as crossdressers, use it to mean the first time they appeared in public in their alternate gender. They may not have disclosed anything to anyone.  In keeping with Zimman’s use of the letter “d,” with declaring a gender transition and disclosing a transgender history, I’ll talk about non-transitioning trans people displaying non-normative gender expression. Zimman explicitly excluded crossdressers from his definition of “transgender,” acknowledging its use as a euphemism for “transsexual,” but when I met him in February I was there to advocate rejecting that sense of the word, based in part on the fact that there’s so much overlap.  Many of his “transgender people,” particularly on the feminine spectrum, identify for years as crossdressers, and in fact the “declaration” he described is a performative speech act that, in the eyes of many trans people, is enough to allow someone to pass from “umbrella trans” (or even “just a cross-dresser” or “just a lesbian”) into “really trans.” (I honestly don’t know much about coming out for queens and butch lesbians.  I do know that for some gay men, coming out allows some feminine self-expression, and similarly allows some masculine expression for lesbians, but I’ve heard that that is still stigmatized by many people, gay and straight.) As I said before, I’m not really happy with these three uses of “coming out.” To put this in perspective, there are several advantages that the “gay” kind of being out confers on the individual and the community:  The dishonesty and self-denial necessary to be closeted tend to be habit-forming and have a corrosive effect on character The same habits of dishonesty and self-denial have a corrosive effect on the tenor of group interactions. Large numbers of gay men, lesbians and bisexuals being out contribute to safety in numbers. It’s easy to dehumanize people when you can pretend they’re not there, but it’s a lot harder when you know someone. It’s easy to hate people when they feel ashamed of themselves, but it’s harder when they have self-respect.  The two forms of “coming out” that Zimman describes (declaring and disclosing) fulfill all these characteristics, but they are only available to people who choose to transition and genderqueer or genderfluid people.  Someone who has the exact same thoughts, beliefs and feelings but decides not to transition or change their primary gender expression has only the display form of coming out available to them.  When people display they are visible in public as trans people, but in clothing and accessories that they normally don’t wear, and with makeup that changes their appearance.  They may not be recognized by people who know them in their primary identity.  Most importantly, they don’t use the same name.  How is anyone supposed to know that the Tiffany Sparkle that they met at the dance club last Friday is the same person as Bob from Accounting? This means that displaying has only one of the four advantages of coming out, the “safety in numbers” advantage, and that only when people are actively cross-dressing.  There may be some feeling of liberation in this, but it is fleeting, and at all other times they still have to hide and to deny their true feelings.  And while they hide, others are unaware that people they know are “one of those” and know that all these people are so ashamed of themselves they don’t want their true names known. I seem to be the exception here.  I decided not to transition in 1995, and I decided to come out in 1996.  I came out “gay style,” by putting up a website and telling my co-workers.  I didn’t start wearing dresses to work; I just told people.  And when a trans-related topic came up, I came out again as necessary. I’ve reaped three of the four benefits of coming out.  I’ve felt hugely better being able to talk about this important part of my life, and knowing that all these people know and are still treating me with respect.  I’ve used it to build bridges in my community and break down walls of hatred and mistrust.  But I don’t get the benefit of strength in numbers. I don’t know any other non-transitioning trans people who’ve come out the way I did, and that’s a shame.  Because there are a lot of closeted trans people out there who don’t seem to know that it’s possible to come out this way.  The only way they see out of the closet is to disclose a gender transition.  That’s not right. Articles Categorization The closet Verbal Hygiene The kind of coming out we need Courtney O’Donnell blogs about media representation of trans people, and serves a useful watchdog role. It’s possible to go overboard with that, and normally she recognizes it. Last September she wrote, “As for ‘transvestite’, some have made it know they find this word offensive, too, however, I’m also aware that it’s usage as an umbrella term is rather widespread — particularly in the United Kingdom. I’d be curious to hear what trans people from the other side of the pond feel about the term.” Last week in a post about Rosalinda Rebolledo, she asked whether Rebolledo’s story counted as “transgender news.”  In a post today, O’Donnell goes overboard.  The actress Gwyneth Paltrow, who’s actually less silly than a lot of Hollywood people, was asked by USA Today, “But seriously, how can she look so fresh the day after partying until near-sunrise for the Met Gala?” Paltrow replied, “Are you crazy? I’m like RuPaul! I have so much makeup on. Foundation! Last night, I was literally a transvestite.” (Don’t even start on the “literally.”  That battle is lost, people.  We’ve got plenty of words that mean “in the real world, not metaphorically or metonymically.”  Use them, and forget this one.) O’Donnell created an image saying that Paltrow “Ridicules Trans People,” and writes, “Trans people are not objects to ridicule. While it may appear to be a thoughtless comment by an ignorant person, however, a celebrity of her stature yields quite a bit of influence among her fans, so she’s going to have to own up to committing this very public blunder.  I wouldn’t go so far to say Paltrow is transphobic, but she in dire need of education. If we can get her to apologize, she can redeem herself and send a bit of good PR our way.” A lot of O’Donnell’s commenters said she was making too big a deal of it, to which O’Donnell replied, “Remember, those that do violence against trans people do not check for labels — crossdressers, transvestites, transsexuals — trans people are all one and the same to them.  Being mocked in the media by a celebrity, no matter how slight, normalizes this behavior.  While readers are free to give Paltrow a pass, I’d like to think I’m helping ensure that mocking trans people isn’t so easily blurted out during interviews anymore.” I’m not really sure what ignorance Paltrow is exhibiting, let alone mockery, and what kind of “education” O’Donnell has in mind for her.  Beyond that, though, where does O’Donnell get off policing the word “transvestite”?  It’s clear from her September post that she doesn’t identify as one, and doesn’t understand the nuances of the word.  Why not leave it to someone who does? When I was a cute young thing I didn’t need to wear any makeup at all.  But at 41, I’m not just a transvestite but an aging transvestite.  I have to spend an hour slathering the stuff on just so that I don’t see my beard shadow in the mirror.  It’s a pain in the ass, and it’s kind of nice to know that People‘s “Most Beautiful Woman” has to put up with it much more often than I do. I don’t feel at all ridiculed by the comparison.  I don’t feel mocked by someone who wears a lot of makeup pointing out that we do too.  I don’t see how it could encourage people to violently attack us.  In fact, I feel sympathy and validation from Paltrow. I’d appreciate it if O’Donnell and (any other non-transvestite activists) could back off from the term “transvestite” and focus on whatever flavor of trans she identifies with.  If we want her help, we can ask for it.  And actually, if she wants to give a signal boost to this effort, that’d be nice. (P.S. See also Jeremy Feist’s take.) Articles General News Verbal Hygiene Who owns “transvestite”? I’ve said many times before that I don’t believe in second-guessing anyone’s decision to transition.  But there are many trans people out there who are still figuring things out, and looking for advice.  This is for them, and for anyone who might be in a position of advising them. I wrote years ago that we can divide trans people into five groups.  One group would commit suicide if they didn’t transition, another would commit suicide if they did transition.  There are people who might not commit suicide if they didn’t transition, but they’d still be pretty miserable, and people who would be miserable if they did transition.  Then there are people who could make it work either way.  I would put myself in the “transition optional” group, and I’ve argued before that it’s probably the biggest group.  Note that this grouping is not meant to indicate some essential or immutable qualities.  They are states of mind, and people can and do shift from one state to another based on the circumstances in their lives. There’s something that I think needs to be said, and I don’t think I’ve ever said it before: If you don’t have to transition, it’s not a good idea to transition.  Medical procedures (hormones and surgery) will disrupt the functions of your body and leave it more vulnerable to biological and social challenges. Being visibly trans invites harassment and discrimination.  The process of transition can alienate friends and family.  These social factors may not be fair, but they are there. Some of you might be thinking, “well, yeah, that’s obvious,” but there are a surprising number of people who act as though transition is always a good idea.  Zinnia Jones famously created a site called “Should I Transition?” with one word on the page, “Yes,” indicating that if you’re asking the question then your destiny is to transition.  For people like this there are no possible downsides and no false positives.  And if any of them have read this far, they’ve probably marked me down already as an Enemy of Trans People for suggesting it. So let me put my position out there: Should you transition? Only if you would be miserable otherwise. Actions Articles All other things being equal AIDS is a horrible disease.  My family has lost at least one dear friend to it, and the world has lost millions of loving, creative people.  It also affects a significant number of transgender people around the world.  AIDS needs to stop, and I’m heartened by recent news of medical advances that help people to live full lives with HIV infections, and even suggest the possibility of a cure. In order to stop the spread of AIDS and help save the lives of people infected with HIV, we need to know what’s going on.  We need the best information possible, and we need to avoid overreaching and making unjustified assumptions.  That’s why I’m frustrated by April’s Bad Stat of the Month: Worldwide burden of HIV in transgender women by Stefan Baral, Tonia Poteat, Susanne Strömdahl, Andrea Wirtz, Thomas Guadamuz and Chris Beyrer at Johns Hopkins, the Karolinksa Institutet and the University of Pittsburgh. As I said with the inaugural Bad Stat of the Month, I’m not happy to be doing this.  I’m sure that Baral and his associates are all caring professionals who really want to make a difference in the fight against AIDS.  I believe that they also want to help transgender people, and they think they’re doing that by spreading these figures.  I hope that this post will convince them that this strategy does more harm than good, and that they should concentrate their efforts elsewhere. So here’s the headline that came blazing across my feed reader earlier this month: Transgender Women 49 Times More Likely To Have HIV, Study Says. “It doesn’t seem like it’s been a priority for global funding entities to care about the needs of transgender communities,” Baral told the Huffington Post’s Meredith Bennett-Smith.  Bennett-Smith continues, “Going forward, Baral said he hopes health care providers and advocates will improve the way they target transgender populations and tailor treatment systems and support networks.” Fair enough.  I want global funding entities to improve the way they target transgender populations, because much as I want them to care about my needs, as a middle-class HIV-negative white American I don’t need their funding.  What I’m afraid of is that the research of Baral and his associates will obscure that fact and other important patterns in the data, making it more difficult for them to target populations, exactly the opposite of their intentions. How does this study obscure these patterns in the data?  There are multiple ways, and I could probably write a post a day for a month.  Tonight I’m going to focus on one specific weakness in the methdology, that I’ve discussed many times before.  Baral and his colleagues pooled data from 39 studies across fifteen countries.  I’ve looked at a few of these studies, and they all use non-representative samples.  It is well known that a non-representative sample cannot be reliably generalized to the population at large, and many of these studies warn against such overgeneralizations.  Baral and his co-authors simply ignored these warnings, stating in their summary, “Our findings suggest that transgender women are a very high burden population for HIV and are in urgent need of prevention, treatment, and care services.” For example, one of the studies that Baral et al. used was a study by Kristen Clements-Nolle, Rani Marx, Robert Guzman and Mitchell Katz of the San Francisco Department of Public Health, who write, “The primary limitation of our research was the use of non-probability sampling. Our findings may not generalize to other urban areas, and there may be threats to internal validity if certain sampling methods were more likely to recruit high-risk individuals. Most traditional random sampling approaches would not produce reliable samples, however, because the transgender population has strong privacy concerns and has never been counted, and because many transgender persons are marginally housed or homeless.” Despite this warning, Baral et al. went right ahead and generalized Clements-Nolle et al’s results, not only to other urban areas, but to the entire United States, and with a certain weighting, to the world. As I said, there are more problems with the meta-study, but I’ll have to save those for later posts.  I’ll also talk about the implications of these problems for trans people and people at risk for HIV. Articles Bad stats Bad Stat of the Month: HIV infection You may think you know what “transgender” means.  But if you’ve been around the trans community for any length of time, you know that the word has been fought over before.  There are at least three different ways that the word is used, and all apply to a somewhat different group of people. First let’s take a look at one of the most widely circulated definitions, found in the GLAAD Media Reference Guide: Transgender is an umbrella term for people whose gender identity and/or gender expression differs from the sex they were assigned at birth. The term may include, but is not limited to transsexuals, cross-dressers and other gender non-conforming people. This is the famous “transgender umbrella” that we see in promotional materials and statistics.  Note the “gender identity and/or expression” part – that’s the inclusive, welcoming part. Now there’s another definition of “transgender” that conflicts with it.  The funny thing is that it’s on the exact same page of GLAAD’s media guide, in the definition of “gender identity”: Gender identity is one’s internal, personal sense of their gender. For transgender people, their birth-assigned gender and their own internal sense of gender identity are not the same. In this definition, note that for transgender people – all of them – the assigned gender and gender identity are not the same.  Those are the exclusionary, rejecting parts. These two definitions contradict each other.  The first one includes people whose gender identity doesn’t differ from our assigned gender, while the second one does not.  They don’t both belong in the same organization, let alone on the same page. There’s a third one, which was noted by Lal Zimman in his 2009 paper (PDF, page 58): my use of the term transgender is not intended in the ‘umbrella label’ sense often found in literature dealing with issues of gender and sexuality. Nor is it intended as a pancultural descriptor to be applied to any gender variant community. Rather, my usage mirrors the meaning this term has taken on in many English-speaking transgender communities in the United States, in which it can serve as a demedicalized substitute for the term transsexual. The GLAAD media guide notes that many people are substituting the term “transgender” for “transsexual,” and that not everyone is comfortable with that: “Unlike transgender, transsexual is not an umbrella term, as many transgender people do not identify as transsexual.”  But then they give up on defining transsexual beyond that.  Zimman provides a definition: “those individuals whose sense of themselves as men or women runs contrary to the gender they were assigned at birth, and who have therefore decided to make a social transition from one gender role to another (regardless of what medical interventions, if any, are pursued).” I want to modify Zimman’s definition here, because he is mixing something that is observable (a gender role transition) with something that is not observable (a gender identity mismatch).  His “therefore,” although it is widely claimed by many, is also unjustified.  There are a significant number of people who transition to a new gender and report having no clear feeling of a gender identity mismatch (or even a gender identity at all) before transition; Zinnia Jones is probably the best known: “For most of my childhood, I didn’t feel like I had a meaningful identity of any kind, gender or otherwise.” This leaves us with three definitions of “transgender”: the umbrella, the gender identity mismatch, and the transitioner.  There is a lot more overlap among these definitions than the diagram above would suggest, but it remains true that there are people who fit under the umbrella who do not transition or have a gender identity mismatch.  There are people who have a gender identity mismatch and fit under the umbrella who do not transition.  And there are people who transition but do not have a gender identity mismatch or fit under the umbrella. This is important to me as someone who fits under the umbrella but is not planning to transition.  I hope that GLAAD will revise its Media Reference Guide to be more consistent with its stated goals of inclusion. Articles Categorization Verbal Hygiene Three definitions of transgender As you could probably tell, I feel bad describing research like the Trans Mental Health Study in such strong negative terms.  I know that the authors wanted to do something to help the trans community, and they thought that was what they were doing.  I want to balance that out by highlighting examples of transgender research done right. I recently had the pleasure of meeting Lal Zimman, a fellow linguist who studies transgender language.  In 2009, Zimman published a paper (PDF) summarizing his research into the concept of “coming out” in transgender communities. A.C. Liang (1997) and Kathleen Wood (1997) reported on “coming out” stories of gay men and lesbians.  In these stories, the term “coming out” is used to refer to the sharing of a sexual orientation.  Because this orientation may not be visible, Zimman says, “Liang argues that reference to the ‘processual’ nature of coming out – in other words, the fact that coming out is not a single event but is rather reenacted time and again throughout an individual’s lifetime – is a crucial component of the coming out narrative.” Zimman interviewed nine individuals who had completed a gender transition and found a pattern that will probably be familiar to a lot of you.  They used “coming out” to share a transgender identity, but in one of two specific ways that were very different from those reported for gay men and lesbians.  Those who hadn’t transitioned to their target gender used “coming out” to mean a declaration (in Zimman’s terms) of their desire or plans to transition to a different gender.  Those who had transitioned used “coming out” to mean a disclosure of their history of gender transition. This is the right way to do research on an unrepresentative sample.  Ask relatively open-ended questions and listen to the answers.  Note common threads among the answers.  Use the stories to make existential arguments – ones that highlight the existence of something that may not have been acknowledged by the academic community.  This is particularly valuable to show exceptions to generalizations that others have made.  In this case, Zimman identifies exceptions to the generalizations that Liang and Wood made about coming out narratives. Even though I think Zimman’s research is exemplary here, I want to note that I have a verbal hygiene argument with what he found.  I don’t like these uses of the term “coming out,” and I think they’re bad for both the trans community and the wider LGBT community.  But that’s a topic for another post.  In the meantime, keep studying trans communities! Articles Good research The closet Verbal Hygiene Good research of the month: “coming out” in trans communities I don’t want to do this.  I want to be a happy trans.  I don’t like being negative, and I don’t like singling out people.  I’ve held back for years.  Unfortunately, people keep putting in hours, months, years of work producing these bad statistics, and then advocating questionable policies based on them.  This latest one could be really damaging.  It’s about trans regret, and it comes from a British grad student named Maeve Regan: The recent Trans Mental Health Study was the largest study of its kind ever undertaken in Europe, with almost 900 respondents. The study asked specifically about individuals’ feelings of regret following social and/or medical transition. These are the results: In terms of social changes made during transition (coming out to friends and family, changing name, living full or part time in a gender not assigned at birth), 34% of respondents had minimal regrets and 9% had significant regrets. A small majority, 53% had no regrets. Specific regrets given included: not having the body they had wanted from birth, not transitioning earlier, losing friends and family, and the impact of transition on others. In terms of physical changes made during transition (resulting from hormone therapy and surgical interventions), the vast majority, 86%, had no regrets. Of the remainder, 10% had minor regrets and 2% had major regrets. The specific regrets given include complications relating to surgery (especially loss of sensitivity), and the choice of surgeon (if surgery resulted in complications or required revisions and repairs). Regan, who identifies herself as “cisgendered (not trans),” wrote the above as part of a summary of findings of the Trans Mental Health Study, for which she was “part of the Advisory Board.”  [Edited to add]: She concludes, “It is clear from the actual reported regrets, along with the conclusions that transition is associated with a broad range of positive indicators, that most cases of regret around transition are not related to being a different gender to the one assigned at birth, or undergoing transition, but rather due to poor surgical outcomes, social stigma and huge barriers to medical care.” In other words, trans people never regret transitioning.  We only regret the way we’re treated, or the way the surgery turns out. This statistic was used in an online discussion where I brought up trans regret.  [Edited]: One of Regan’s co-authors, Jay McNeil, wrote, “we found that where people did have regrets, they were largely related to their experiences of how they were treated rather than the choices they’d made around their bodies. Where people felt like de-transitioning it was mainly because they lacked support to cope wit the social stigma and losses.” How are these percentages bad statistics?  They are taken from a non-representative sample and generalized to all transgender people in the United Kingdom.  Specifically, this survey was collected using the ubiquitous “snowball” method: Participants were encouraged to take part mainly through a process of snowballing. Trans support groups, online forums and mailing lists with UK members were contacted and given information about the study and asked to share the survey as widely as possible. Other equality and health groups, and professional networks with potential links to the trans population (e.g. LGBT networks; professionals whose work might bring them into contact with trans people) were also contacted and asked to distribute information about the survey. The survey spread primarily through word-of-mouth, and the researchers attended a number of trans groups in person to discuss the project and encourage participation. The survey was open for approximately 3 months (mid-April 2012 to mid-July 2012), during which time reminders were posted online, and the survey continued to be publicised. The problem is that “trans people” are typically defined by whether they intend to transition.  Regretters by definition withdraw that intent to transition, and are thus considered by many to be “not really trans.”  Some regretters, like non-transitioners, accept that classification and affirm, “I guess I wasn’t trans after all.”  Others may still consider themselves trans, but not want to hang around with the happy transitioning crowd.  Would you? Regretters who don’t believe they’re trans wouldn’t take a “trans mental health survey.”  Regretters who are alienated from “the trans community” might not know about such a survey, and might not want to fill one out if they did know about it.  So this survey is highly unlikely to have received responses from any serious regretters.  That’s not evidence that regretters don’t exist, it’s evidence of bad sampling. These numbers could be really damaging because they give a false impression that regret doesn’t exist.  That could set up any number of trans people for serious disappointment down the road.  Of course, with this “no true Scotsman” (ahem) reasoning, the authors may never find out. As I said, this snowball method is all over the place.  I don’t want to single out the authors of this study for doing what practically every other trans researcher is doing.  I felt bad for focusing on Emilia Dunham for publishing a bunch of unfounded generalizations back in 2011.  But you need to start somewhere.  And the conclusions that Regan draws are bad, bad, bad. I get the feeling that Regan and the other authors of the Trans Mental Health study are kind, caring people, and want to help all trans people.  I think if they looked into the eyes of a regretter and saw the disappointment and frustration that I’ve seen, they would care about them too, and stop this denial.  I wonder if they will ever allow themselves to do it. Articles Bad stats Bad stat of the month: Trans regret Recently, I got some messages asking me to press for transgender and lesbian, gay and bisexual inclusion in the Violence Against Women Act, a law that sunsets regularly but has just been reauthorized by Congress.  The action alerts also talked about “gender identity,” and the definition that came to mind is this one from GLAAD, which is echoed in other definitions around the country: “One’s internal, personal sense of being a man or a woman (or a boy or a girl).” Photo: UltraViolet.orgI was concerned about the use of “gender identity” in this bill.  Being white and middle-class I’m at relatively low risk, but there are other trans people from all ethnic and economic backgrounds who occasionally go out in public presenting as women, with male bodies unmodified by hormone or surgical treatment, and without a strong belief that we are women.  We may be seen by others as women, as trans people or as gay men.  We may be targeted for sexual assault, stalking or other violent actions based on those perceptions.  A law that is based on the “internal sense” definition of gender identity would fail to protect us. Today I took a closer look and discovered that this fight actually is relevant to people like me.  The Violence Against Women Act, originally passed in 1994, provided grants for nonprofits and government agencies to run programs aimed at preventing violence against women and providing support for women who are victims of domestic and sexual violence. The expanded version of the law passed by the Senate last year, but rejected by the House of Representatives, and then passed this week by both houses of Congress, includes new protections that weren’t in the original bill.  Overall, it includes “dating violence” and “stalking” as eligible categories of violence in addition to “domestic violence” and “sexual assault.”  It also includes provisions for “men, women, and youth in correctional and detention settings.” One part that relates to transgender and LGB victims is the definition of “underserved populations.”  There are grants for organizations working with underserved populations. UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS.—The term “underserved populations” means populations who face barriers in accessing and using victim services, and includes populations underserved because of geographic location, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, underserved racial and ethnic populations, populations underserved because of special needs (such as language barriers, disabilities, alienage status, or age), and any other population determined to be underserved by the Attorney General or by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as appropriate. Another section expands the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to include support for the following: developing, enlarging, or strengthening programs and projects to provide services and responses targeting male and female victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, whose ability to access traditional services and responses is affected by their sexual orientation or gender identity, as defined in section 249(c) of title 4 18, United States Code In section 249(c) of the hate crimes law is where we actually get a legal definition of “gender identity,” and it turns out to be very different from that given by organizations like GLAAD: the term ‘gender identity’ means actual or perceived gender-related characteristics This definition is much broader than the “internal sense” definitions, but does a better job of delineating the class of victims who are underserved, and who are often actually denied services when people perceive them as “queers” or “trannies,” with no knowledge of their internal sense of gender. The people who refuse to investigate or prosecute crimes against transgender people don’t give a rat’s ass what internal, personal sense of gender those transgender people have.  If I (or someone like me who’s black or Mexican) get bashed and a cop won’t write it up, telling the cop that I really don’t have an internal, personal sense that I’m a woman isn’t going to get me any better treatment.  That’s probably why the definition in the hate crimes law didn’t reference a sense of gender, and why this expanded Violence Against Women Act doesn’t either. A final note: in the spirit of the Delhi protesters who said “Don’t tell your daughters to stay at home, instead teach your sons to behave,” I like this program in the new Violence Against Women Act: ENGAGING MEN AS LEADERS AND ROLE MODELS.—To develop, maintain or enhance programs that work with men to prevent domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking by helping men to serve as role models and social influencers of other men and youth at the individual, school, community or statewide levels. Articles Categorization General News Verbal Hygiene “Gender identity” in the Violence Against Women Act (Cross-posted from my Transportation blog) This weekend the New York Times Styles section ran one of their periodic stories about kids growing up and moving to the suburbs, and changing both themselves and the suburbs in the process.  A while back the suburb in question (more of an exurb) was Rosendale, and this time it was Hastings-on-Hudson.  This particular article was notable for its sheer number of evocations of the wacky hipster frame, and specifically the description by “futurism consultant” (sorry, I have to put that in quotes) Ari Wallach that Hastings is a village “in a Wittgensteinian sort of way.” Blogger Kieran Healy responded by posting the “Top Ten Ways that Hastings-on-Hudson might be a Village in a Wittgensteinian Sense.”  And of course he’s right that it is a very funny quote, name-dropping a philosopher that hardly anybody has read in the original, in a “Styles” article about real estate trends.  I would crack up if I ever found myself saying something like that, and I hope Wallach has enough of a sense of humor to do the same. What’s funnier to me, as I just realized yesterday morning, is that I have an idea what Wallach was saying, and I agree with him.  In fact, on Sunday I was at the Lavender Languages Conference arguing that I am transgender in a Wittgensteinian sort of way.  I didn’t use those words; instead I referenced George Lakoff, who got the idea from Wittgenstein via Eleanor Rosch. I learned about Ludwig Wittgenstein in Philosophy of Language class 22 years ago, but that class was so rich with theories that I couldn’t keep track of them all.  So now I’m catching up with the help of Wikipedia, which gives us this quote (Philosophical Investigations 66, 1953) about the idea of “family relationships”: Consider for example the proceedings that we call ‘games’. I mean board games, card games, ball games, Olympic games, and so on. What is common to them all? Don’t say, “There must be something common, or they would not be called ‘games'”–but look and see whether there is anything common to all. For if you look at them you will not see something common to all, but similarities, relationships, and a whole series of them at that. To repeat: don’t think, but look! Look for example at board games, with their multifarious relationships. Now pass to card games; here you find many correspondences with the first group, but many common features drop out, and others appear. When we pass next to ball games, much that is common is retained, but much is lost. Are they all ‘amusing’? Compare chess with noughts and crosses. Or is there always winning and losing, or competition between players? Think of patience. In ball games there is winning and losing; but when a child throws his ball at the wall and catches it again, this feature has disappeared. Look at the parts played by skill and luck; and at the difference between skill in chess and skill in tennis. Think now of games like ring-a-ring-a-roses; here is the element of amusement, but how many other characteristic features have disappeared! And we can go through the many, many other groups of games in the same way; can see how similarities crop up and disappear. And the result of this examination is: we see a complicated network of similarities overlapping and criss-crossing: sometimes overall similarities, sometimes similarities of detail.  I made this Euler diagram (which is not a true Venn diagram, according to the Wikipedian who made this page). Some of the games that Wittgenstein mentions, like Olympic track and field games, are amusing (in the sense of not being boring) and involve competition among players, skill and chance. Other games fit only some of these criteria. There is no element of luck in chess or tic-tac-toe.  There is no competition among players in solitaire or throwing a ball at the wall.  There is no skill involved in ring-around-the-rosie.  Tic-tac-toe is not “amusing.”  Nevertheless, we call these all “games,” and if we tried to say that any of the four were necessary criteria we would exclude some of the games. Similarly, these cannot be sufficient criteria either.  Surgery involves skill, but it is not a game.  Weather forecasting involves chance.  War involves competition.  Theater is amusing.  That said, they are often compared to games, and described with game metaphors. This is a good place to stop.  I’ll talk in another blog post about how Hastings might be a village in this way. Articles Categorization In a Wittgensteinian sort of way There’s an ugly bit of misinformation going around the Internet, that feelings of gender discomfort always get worse with age.  I discovered it the other day in the comments to a New York Tines “Ethicist”column responding to an older trans person.  The first comment was by a post-transition woman named Zoe Brain: “Gender Dysphoria varies in intensity, and is also progressive.” It was echoed by another woman, Julie C. from Bala Cynwyd: “Trans is progressive, getting worse as the trans person gets older.” The other night Natalie Reed tweeted this to me:   (Update: Natalie Reed was very angry when I tweeted her this post. She said that it’s basic Internet etiquette to ask before using someone’s tweets in a blog post, and that I damaged her ability to trust other trans people who reach out to her for help. Apparently she was under the impression I was asking for advice, not support. I honestly had no idea that some people followed this rule, and no intention of misleading her or abusing her trust. As soon as Reed complained to me I apologized and removed the references to her from this post.  She ignored that and spent an hour subtweeting her misunderstandings about my intentions.  After several months with no response, I am restoring the references to her statements.) The gist of this argument is that even if you’re not one of the “transition or die” trans people, if you don’t transition now you’ll eventually find yourself in that category.  There’s also an idea (which I generally agree with) that if you’re going to transition the earlier the better.  Put the two together, and you get an argument that every trans person should transition as soon as possible. (I’m still not sure how you get from there to “anyone who doesn’t want to transition must not be trans,” but we can deal with that at some other point.) For some people, feelings of gender discomfort and the desire to be the other gender definitely do get stronger over time.  I’ve heard this from many trans people, and I don’t want to discount their experiences.  But it’s not necessarily true, and it’s not automatically true. Again we come back to the principle that no one really knows what’s going on with trans people, and no one will know until we get some kind of representative sample.  Generalizations with “all” and “always” are simply not appropriate. I personally find that my discomfort with being a man, and my desire to be a woman, are not even perfectly correlated with each other, much less constant over time.  They both have their ups and downs, and I can connect some of those ups and downs to particular circumstances in my life, but not all of them.  Reed is right in that they both keep coming back, even after thirty years or so, but she’s wrong in that on average they haven’t gotten more intense or more frequent. This is again the problem of negative evidence: we can see that for some trans people it gets harder over time, but we don’t necessarily notice that for other people it doesn’t get harder.  For every person who transitions or commits suicide, or even hangs on in quiet desperation, there may be one, or many, who lead relatively happy lives without transitioning, until they die.  We just don’t know. What we do know is that there are some people like me, for whom it hasn’t gotten harder.  And that’s the thing about generalizations: they can be invalidated by even one counterexample. Articles Bad stats Categorization Feelings The curious incident of the trans feelings I was disappointed to read in Helen Boyd’s blog that people have been attacking Christine Benvenuto for writing about the destruction of her marriage. I was also very disappointed that Helen’s main solution was “People need to transition younger so that some of this can be prevented.” That’s it? Transition younger? I was glad that Helen posted (in comment number 3 on her post) a poignant anonymous reply from a closeted, non-transitioning trans person, that included a call for better counseling: Treatment has at least gotten to the point that no one seems to believe that you can reroute our brains back to our genetically assigned sex. But the truth is, I simply don’t see anything in “treatment” that is helping us to find a path in the binary world that we don’t feel like we belong to. I love my wife and I love my family. There has to be some type of counseling to help the “responsible” TG family person and their families move to a place of less discomfort, less of the all or nothing options that seem are there for us today. Solid and consistent counseling to help us is desperately needed. It seems as though so few of us ever find peace with who we are, and to be pushed to choices that are also quite binary (closet or transitioned) seems ludicrous to me. Sure, some people could avoid this particular class of tragedy by transitioning younger. But others, including people who missed their chance to transition younger, have chosen not to transition. They – we – can honor that choice, that commitment that we made to ourselves and our loved ones, and do what it takes to keep that commitment while still honoring, loving and respecting ourselves. We can learn that transgender feelings are not static, but rather change with circumstances. We can learn about gender fog and the slippery slope, and how they affect our feelings and actions. We can structure our lives so that we enjoy them the way we chose to enjoy them, with the people that we love. This is not repression. It’s not self-denial. It doesn’t mean being in the closet, hating yourself, living a lie. You can be out, trans and proud without transitioning. You can be true to your self. You can have the authentic life that the Transgender Law Center promises us. And just like gay marriage doesn’t “destroy” heterosexual marriage, choosing to live as an out trans person without transitioning will not destroy other people’s transitions. Is it disappointing? Of course. Is it frustrating? You bet. But it’s not depressing, and it’s not a life full of fear and despair. Show me the transgender life that doesn’t have its frustrations and disappointments. Show me the human life that doesn’t. People can do this. It’s not for everyone. But for a lot of trans people it’s the best option. And the anonymous commenter is right that we need expert counseling. I’m not talking about reparative therapy or any of that self-denial shit. We need people who can help us navigate a path between repression and family disintegration, to avoid the slippery slope and identity fatigue, and to cope with gender fog. We need this to be included in the menu of “transgender health” options offered by clinics and covered by insurance. Before we can do this, though, we need one very important thing. We need to smash transgender essentialism. We need to get rid of the idea that every transgender person has to transition. Transition helps a lot of people, but it’s not the only choice, and it’s not the best choice for some of us. If you agree, please comment, link and reblog this, and post your own thoughts. And then, every time you see something that implies or assumes that all transgender people transition, please question it. Nothing will change if we perpetuate that fiction. If you do, email me at andrea@grieve-smith.com, and I’ll have your back. Actions Articles Feelings We need support to not transition When I was in fifth grade (the same age as my son is now), I had an argument with another boy in the class, a boy that I had been sort of friends with for a little while.  At a certain point, his eyes narrowed, and he spat, “You dumb Jew!” I was glad that my mom called his mom that night, and that his mom apologized to us, and got him to apologize to me.  It was an inappropriate thing to say, and it needed to be dealt with promptly.  But I wasn’t hurt. I knew that some of the smartest people in the world were Jewish, and I knew that I was one of the smartest kids in the class.  I was even mature enough at that point to know that the people who might be called “dumb” still deserved respect. I also knew that my other classmates didn’t care that I was Jewish.  They might have resented me because I got better grades than them, because I was a city kid, or because I didn’t make any effort not to cry.  Or they might have quite legitimately resented me because I was a smart-aleck know-it-all.  But even though they were all Catholics and Methodists and Dutch Reform and Jehovah’s Witnesses, it just wasn’t a big deal being Jewish. So this boy combined a lie that wouldn’t have hurt me if it had been true (“dumb”) with a fact that I wasn’t at all ashamed of (“Jew”).  How could this hurt me?  I was hurt by the fact that this boy hated me so much he reached for what he thought would be the most hurtful thing he could say.  I was hurt a few weeks later when he succeeded in convincing a mutual friend to reject me, through some combination of lies and bribery.  But I wasn’t hurt by his words.  They didn’t make any sense. That’s the way I feel about Friday’s cartoon by Sean Delonas in the New York Post.  The cartoon refers to the fact, recently discovered by the local political press, that Chirlane McCray used to identify as a lesbian and had sexual relationships with women, which she publicly proclaimed on the cover of Essence magazine in 1979.  This is news because McCray has been married to a man, Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, since 1994, and they have two teenage sons. Delonas’s cartoon shows McCray and de Blasio in bed smoking cigarettes, the conventional signal that they have just had sex.  McCray, with a big smile on her face, is on the telephone telling someone, “I used to be a lesbian, but my husband, Bill de Blasio, won me over.”  The bearded de Blasio is wearing a padded bra, panties, stockings, a garter belt and high heeled shoes over his hairy male body, and looks annoyed with the situation. My reaction to Delonas’s cartoon was the same one that I had to this kid calling me a “dumb Jew” in fifth grade.  Delonas starts with an obvious truth, that McCray once said she was a lesbian and had lesbian relationships, but which nobody should be ashamed of.  He then adds a speculation that may or may not be true: that de Blasio cross-dresses when having sex with his wife.  It’s probably not true, but if it is, it’s also nothing to be ashamed of. It’s clear that Delonas is a nasty man who thinks that cross-dressing and being a lesbian are both things to be ashamed of.  This is obvious in the cartoon, in the cartoon that he published today, and in his previous body of work.  It’s also clear that he sees de Blasio as a political enemy and wants to hurt him.  What’s not clear is why de Blasio should be hurt by this.  It’s either a lie mixed with an obvious truth, or two truths together, none of which are anything to be ashamed of. De Blasio is clearly hurt by the cartoon.  At a rally Saturday, he announced “I’m offended they denigrated a woman who is a role model by any measure.” A number of politicians, including potential rivals for the Democratic nomination for Mayor next year, were there to defend de Blasio.  City Council Speaker Christine Quinn said that the cartoon was “the worst” thing in the coverage of McCray’s past.  Former Comptroller and failed mayoral candidate Bill Thompson, who identified himself as a personal friend of de Blasio and McCray, said, “The first thing you think about is, my God, how could they do this to a family? How could they do this to their children? How could they do this? … While you won’t get an apology from the Post, on behalf of good people from New York, I’m sorry you have been dragged into this mud by this newspaper.” Delonas clearly meant this as an attack, and I understand the impulse to defend yourself and your friends.  But here’s the key: it’s only a successful attack if you believe that cross-dressing in the bedroom is something to be ashamed of.  If there’s nothing wrong with a guy wearing a garter belt in bed, then it’s not denigrating anyone, it’s not doing anything to a family, and it’s not dragging anyone into the mud.  When there is no shame, there is no mud. What is worse, by being outraged, de Blasio and his friends have created the mud.  If it is “the worst” thing to accuse someone of cross-dressing, what does that say about me and all the other cross-dressers in New York City?  How many guys are going to feel a tinge of shame the next time they reach for their nylons? I’ll tell you one thing: I doubt that de Blasio cross-dresses, but if he does, the most powerful thing he could do for New York City in his lifetime would be to come out of the closet and then run for Mayor.  It wouldn’t be that much of a stretch, since Rudy Giuliani has already appeared onstage in nylons and heels.  Even if he lost, he would accomplish more by being strong and running without shame than by anything he could do if he stayed in the closet and got elected.  I think that Quinn and any other out gay politician in the city would agree with me. Assuming that de Blasio doesn’t cross-dress, it would be a huge gesture to us if he and Bill Thompson could simply make a statement saying that cross-dressing is nothing to be ashamed of.  All I want is seven words: “Not that there’s anything wrong with that.” Articles “How could they do this to a family?” I came across this quote in the abstract of a conference presentation by Sel J. Hwahng (on Page 7 of this PDF): It is well known among public health researchers that in the U.S. the majority of male-to-female transgender (transfeminine) people are low-income people of color, while the majority of female-to-male transgender people (specifically those that identify as transmen, FTM, or genderqueer) are white and economically/educationally privileged. I was floored by this statement, since I’ve been very adamant about the fact that we just don’t know what the majority of anything trans is, and about the need for caution when making any kind of statement involving proportions.  The statement goes against my own perceptions, but I deliberately avoid reading too much into my own perceptions, because I know how much I don’t know.  If this non-fact is “well known among public health researchers,” then my opinion of public health researchers just dropped quite a bit. I was further intrigued to discover that I’m in those numbers.  Me personally, I’ve been counted!  Several years ago I volunteered for a multi-year study of male to female transgender people in the greater New York area.  Every few months I’d go in, answer a bunch of questions, and get a blood test and a few bucks for my trouble.  I didn’t do it for the money, which was well below my hourly rate for computer work.  I was contributing my data, in part to provide a counterpoint to the idea that all transfeminine people are low-income people of color.  I guess it only goes so far. It turns out that Sel Hwahng was one of the researchers.  I might have talked to him once or twice, but I mostly dealt with Mona Rae Mason and Monica Macri.  And yes, non-Hispanic white people counted for only 27% of study participants and people making more than $30,000 a year were only 26%, so us well-off white people are certainly a minority of the study participants.  No, you can’t generalize from that, but then again I didn’t really talk sampling with anybody while I was there. Reading that abstract got me looking up the results that have come out of the study.  Sel Hwahng used some of the qualitative data in this report from 2007, showing how the MTF trans population in New York is segregated into distinct communities based on ethnicity: black/latin, asian and white.  It’s got a lot of interesting existential observations, but I could do without the implication that all of us “middle-class White cross-dressers” are just waiting to break up with our wives to transition.  Some of us plan to die as men. In 2009 the whole group published a report using the quantitative data to argue that life for transgender people is more complicated than Ray Blanchard’s simplistic “homosexual” and “autogynephilic” dichotomy.  They then got into a thing with Anne Lawrence about it.  What I find most interesting is that among the study participants were 221 people who reported that at some time in our lives, wearing feminine attire was “sexually arousing,” including 90 who reported not being attracted to non-transgender females, and 58 who reported not being attracted to non-transgender males.  One of those 58 is me. In 2011 the group published another report based on questions about verbal and physical abuse, and whether such abuse was related to gender identity or presentation.  They showed that MTF transpeople who experience that kind of abuse tend to be more depressed, and also to have more unprotected anal sex, and to be at greater risk for HIV infection.  I’m glad to say that I didn’t have any abuse, depression or unprotected anal sex to report, and I didn’t test positive for HIV.  I’m sad to read that there were 107 people who came in and told Monica or Mona that they’d been verbally or physically abused, 145 who were depressed, and 43 who had unprotected anal sex with a casual partner or a john.  The point of the article is that one way to overcome AIDS is to stick up for transpeople, and of course that’s a message I support. The 2007 report makes unsupported leaps even without explicit quantitative statements, but in the 2009 and 2011 reports, Larry Nuttbrock was very careful to include disclaimers about the limits to generalizing the results.  I’m glad he did, and I think his conclusions were mostly justified.  Overall, I’m satisfied with the reports that have come out of this study.  It was an interesting experience to answer all those questions.  I wonder what they’ll do next. Articles Bad stats Good research My life as a data point Vee is the spouse of a non-transitioning trans person and a long time reader and commenter of this blog.  She writes, “Dealing with feelings of love and commitment to each other yet trying to cope with the envy and enticement of transition. But not wanting to give up our life which we have invested in. How do you cope with envy? Thoughts?” That is such a good question, Vee, that I felt it deserved its own post.  I definitely feel that kind of envy when I see pretty young transitioners all dressed up, dating and having fun, while I get older with bigger shoulders, thicker facial hair and a bigger belly. As you acknowledge, the first principle of trans stuff is that Nobody Knows What’s Going On.  I can’t tell you what will work for your husband.  But with that in mind, here are some things that have helped with me. When I feel this envy, it’s not just garden-variety envy.  If I see someone with a fancy new phone, I’ll feel motivated to save up to buy that phone.  If I see someone casually picking up heavy things the way I used to do before I hurt my back, I’ll feel wistful.  Neither of those are really anything like what I feel when I see a fully-lasered trans woman with long flowing hair giggling with celebrities on television.  What I feel at that point is the glamour longing, as described by Virginia Postrel: By binding image and desire, glamour gives us pleasure, even as it heightens our yearning. It makes us feel that the life we dream of exists, and to desire it even more. We recognize glamour by its emotional effect—a sense of projection and longing—and by the elements from which that effect arises: mystery, grace, and the promise of escape and transformation. The glamour longing is at its heart a symptom of the desire to escape – to escape from something in our lives which is almost unbearable.  It is triggered by these other trans people, who seem to have escaped.  But just as a red car is rarely an escape from a dead-end job, a mistress with blond hair is rarely an escape from a loveless marriage, and a bigger house is rarely an escape from feelings of inadequacy instilled by prejudice, transition is very rarely an actual escape from whatever it is that traps us. One thing that has helped me a bit is to actually live that fantasy for brief periods.  I’ve walked through the streets of Manhattan and had people (men and women) say admiring things as I went past.  It got me high for a while, but even at the time I was aware of how uncomfortable it was wearing falsies, Spanx, high heels and a ton of makeup. Most women don’t get dressed up like that every day. After I came down (and boy was it important to come down after that, and it took almost two weeks.  Remember to spread out your significant gender events!) I realized that presenting as a woman in public hadn’t really changed anything in my life.  I was still married to the same woman, with the same kid, the same apartment and the same job.  I’m generally happy in my marriage, but even if I had been looking for someone else, none of the people who showed interest in me were very promising as long-term partners.  In a lot of ways, the whole exercise felt like a waste of time. Another thing that helps is to get to know the people you’re feeling envious of, or to read what they write about their day-to-day lives.  These cute, younger trans women are people too.  Some of them are doing okay, some are frustrated, some are downright miserable.  None of them seem to be having all that much better a time than I am.  Transition didn’t magically solve any of their problems. But you don’t have to go out in public, or even meet anyone else, to deal with this envy.  Here’s a key piece that I’ve observed in my own glamour longing: it gets stronger when things are going badly in my life, and it’s weaker when things are going well.  This has been particularly true with my romantic life: my interest in being a woman disappeared for several months after the first time I kissed a girl, and the same thing happened after I moved in with my wife. I’ve heard similar stories from many other trans people, and it makes sense if the envy is really a longing to escape.  So here’s my top recommendation for your husband, Vee, and anyone else who’s feeling this way: Try to change things that make you feel trapped or hopeless. It could be your job, your parents, your marriage, or anything. It may mean you need a new job or a new spouse, but it doesn’t have to.  My wife and I spent years working through issues that had nothing to do with my gender expression.  It didn’t make my transgender feelings go away, but it did reduce their intensity. And to reassure you, Vee, it also doesn’t necessarily mean that the problem is coming from the spouse or the employer or the landlord.  It could be the way that the trans person approaches those relationships, and most likely everyone shares some of the blame.  The important thing is to figure out what feels hopeless and change it to get the hope back. This is a part of my recommendation to invest in your masculine identity.  If your husband has chosen to live the rest of his life as a man, Vee, he needs to make that a life worth living.  It sounds like he has a good partner for that in you. I wish you the best of luck, and to all the other non-transitioners and partners out there struggling with this.  Other non-transitioners and partners reading this: what’s worked for you?  What hasn’t? Actions Articles Feelings Envy, glamour and not transitioning You’ve all heard the Trans 101 definition: “irrational or persistent fears or non-acceptance towards people whose gender identity or expression differs from the gender they were assigned at birth. Transphobia can lead to direct or indirect discrimination or harassment in a variety of forms; the common theme is a misunderstanding of, or failure to respect, gender diversity.” Are you ready for something more advanced – say, Trans 201?  It’s all very well to declare that someone’s fears are irrational, and many of them sure are, but that doesn’t really tell us much about where they come from, so it doesn’t help us to stop it.  We can only get true understanding through empathy and compassion.  I count at least eight distinct reasons for someone to feel afraid of or hostile towards a transgender person.  They all have different sources, and they all call for different responses.  Lump them together at your peril.  Entitlement policing: the fear that someone is getting away with something they don’t deserve.  This is behind bathroom anxiety and so much more.  It’s even more intense if the self-appointed border guard believes that the transgender person in question needs to be made an example of, or else “they’ll all want one.” Moral condemnation: the belief that transgender behavior is immoral and must be punished.  Usually there is no reason given for this condemnation, it’s just written in a book somewhere. Sissy discipline: the belief that “men” (particularly young ones) who refuse to accept male roles must be punished for shirking their duties. Deception rage: anger based on a belief that someone has deceived you to gain something valuable from you, including but not limited to sexual gratification.  This is a factor in many murders of transgender people. Fear of unintended consequences: fear based on the belief that someone may be unintentionally putting themselves in danger, or making a choice they may regret. Fear of shaming or retribution by association: the fear of being attacked for having loved, cared for or been intimate with a transgender person.  This is a legitimate fear based on events such as the murder of Barry Winchell, Calpernia Addams’s boyfriend, in 1999.  It is also a factor in murders of transgender people. Fear of self-hatred: some people who are intimate with transgender people criticize themselves for it, especially if they believe that it means they are “gay.”  They may further believe that killing their lover will somehow absolve them of “gayness” or demonstrate their rejection of it. Fear of shaming or shunning of a transgender loved one, by others or even by oneself.  Yes, some people attack their loved ones because they don’t want to feel obligated to attack them in the future.  How messed up is that?  Do these make sense to you?  Am I missing anything? Articles Verbal Hygiene What is transphobia? Back in 2004 I lost my father, who had been there for me since I was born.  In May I unexpectedly lost Ed Kossoy, the man who joined my mother in raising me from when I was twelve.  If you think saying goodbye to one father makes you think about your own mortality, you can imagine what it’s like with two. There have been other deaths near me recently as well: a thirty-year-old neighbor dropped dead of a heart attack; another acquaintance died of a freak (i.e. non-car-related) accident.  Friends have told me about losing loved ones in painful ways.  Even pets: two years ago one of our cats died after a long illness. I’m not a kid anymore, and sometimes I have weird health issues and I wonder, could this be it?  Of course I hope I’ll be around for many years to come, but my time will come eventually.  And I know several transgender people who have decided to transition when they were confronted with the fact that some day they will die.  As I understand it, they realized that they really didn’t want to live as men their entire lives, and that if they didn’t transition they might just die as men.  That was their choice for themselves. For myself, I’ve seen two men I love die, and I think it’s okay.  When the time comes for me to go, I’ll be a man like them. Does this mean that I no longer feel any desire to be a woman?  Far from it.  I feel it every day, as much as many who have transitioned.  But I also feel a desire to be a man.  Not some caricature of manliness, but a thoughtful, problem-solving man like my dad and Ed both were.  A strong and loving man.  Long ago I realized that I can’t be both, and chose to be a man. I still plan on cross-dressing on a regular basis for as long as I can.  You may some day see an elegant old lady walking down the street, and it’ll be me.  But then in a few hours I’ll go home and change back.  I hope that I don’t die in the dressing room at Macy’s, but there are certainly more embarrassing ways to die.  And of course the most embarrassing way of all is to die after a lifetime of hiding yourself in fear.  Whatever happens, it won’t be that for me. Articles Personal news I will die a man Today I got an email from the Human Rights Campaign saying, “Tell ABC: Your new comedy is no laughing matter.”  It’s about this new television show called “Work It.”  HRC says, As part of their winter line-up, ABC is releasing a new comedy called “Work It,” featuring two men who dress as women in order to get jobs. The problem is that the premise reinforces false, hurtful stereotypes about transgender people. This kind of programming only mocks those who don’t adhere to society’s gender norms. Tell ABC’s president to can “Work It” now.  The link in HRC’s email goes to a petition asking ABC “not to air a show that reinforces negative and damaging stereotypes about transgender people.”  On their website, HRC says that their president Joe Solomonese “contacted ABC Entertainment Group President Paul Lee today to request a meeting to discuss the very real challenges transgender Americans face in the work place – with the goal of ensuring “Work It” can be a light-hearted comedy that doesn’t belittle or mock these obstacles; or reinforce negative and potentially damaging stereotypes.” With a little googling, I found a trailer for the new series, and articles at The Wrap and the Hollywood Reporter.  These both said that not only HRC, but the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Discrimination were up in arms about the new show. On GLAAD’s website, I found a blog post attempting to explain “Why ABC’s New Sitcom Work It Hurts the Transgender Community.”  That blog post linked to a Huffington Post article by Mark Daniel Snyder of the Transgender Law Center saying, “We owe it to our constituents to speak out anywhere we see an injustice, no matter how big or how small.” I don’t particularly feel that this show is harmful to transgender people.  I’ll explain my reaction in more detail later, but for now I want to focus on the advocacy messages. Note that in the HRC website and email, and the statements in the media, we do not hear from a single trans person.  HRC president Joe Solomonese is not transgender, and I’m pretty sure that neither is GLAAD Acting President Mike Thompson or Matt Kane, their Associate Director of Entertainment Media.  The transgender Huffington Post bloggers who’ve discussed this issue, Emerson Whitney and Mark Daniel Snyder, are both female-to-male, as is Transgender Law Center Executive Director Masen Davis, quoted in the Advocate. It took a lot of digging to find any public statements by male-to-female transgender people, and there was a negative one by Kelli Busey and one withholding judgment by Jillian Page.  The only expert on transgender workplace diversity I know of, Jillian Weiss, has produced a single tweet, “@kellibusey I like your guest post on care2.” What I find a lot more disturbing than yet another crappy sitcom is reading pronouncements by a bunch of gay men and FTMs about what MTF transgender people feel and think and want, at best referencing yet another problematic convenience-sample survey, without a single MTF voice to be heard.  Do Joe Solomonese and Matt Kane and Mark Daniel Snyder know any MTFs?  Emerson Whitney at least quoted Kelli Busey; why couldn’t Mike Thompson or Mason Davis? I’ll tell you what hurts the transgender community.  It’s the pretense that we are united by anything other than the hatred we get from outside.  It’s the idea that we all care about the same things, feel the same way, react the same way.  It’s the constant stream of shoddy convenience-sample survey reports that allow some gay guy who read The Celluloid Closet or some FTM who read Marjorie Garber to set themselves up as authorities about What Hurts the Community.  It’s the idea that this is a problem ABC can solve by meeting with Joe Solomonese instead of, say, an actual transgender person, maybe even an actor or producer. I’m thinking of starting a petition. Articles Categorization General News Why HRC, GLAAD and TLC’s advocacy hurts the transgender community In my last post I mentioned the other big finding in Dan Gilbert’s work: that people only get that satisfaction if they think the choice is final.  When they knew they could change their minds about the painting, they were less happy with it.  This explains a lot about the way decisions and commitments are made.  If you’ve made a very difficult choice that affects every aspect of your life, like marriage, a job or a child, you’re going to have mixed feelings about it, and from time to time feel a desire to change your choice.  The easier it is to make that change, the more time you’ll spend thinking about it, and the less time you’ll spend adapting to the choice you made.  In the end that means more satisfaction. The implications for “transition optional” transgender people are clear: we will have difficulty making peace with our choices unless we’ve ruled out the other choices.  This makes it easier to understand the origins of transgender dogma.  If you believe that it’s your destiny to live as a woman no matter how many people insist you’re a man, you’re going to think less about the choice you’ve already made.  On the other hand, if you believe that you’re “just a crossdresser,” you’ll be less likely to think maybe you should transition after all. The result is that we get a lot of people claiming to be “transition or die” or “transition and be miserable” when in fact we’re transition optional.  We do this for our own sanity, our own peace of mind.  But that doesn’t mean it’s without problems. Articles Categorization The value of finality In my last post I noted that we can divide people with transgender feelings into five groups.  Some will commit suicide if they don’t transition, and some will be miserable.  A third group will commit suicide if they *do* transition, and a fourth group will be miserable.  The fifth group, in which I count myself, has the ability to live in either gender without being miserable or suicidal.  Or else they would be miserable or suicidal in any gender lifestyle, so transition would not make a difference. A reader told me that she had heard of a study indicating that our “transition optional” group is the largest of these five.  I’d like to see that study, but I’m skeptical that it actually shows that.  As I’ve said before, we don’t have any kind of transgender population census, so any prevalence figures are likely to be completely inaccurate. I do have a theory that predicts that the “transition optional” group is large, though.  It comes from Harvard psychologist Dan Gilbert, who has done research on happiness.  I strongly recommend reading his book, Stumbling on Happiness, which is an easy read.  You can get the short version from Gilbert’s engaging TED talk. There were two big things I took away from Gilbert’s work.  The first is that we humans are capable of making the best of all kinds of situations.  When the subjects thought they were stuck with their third-choice painting, they learned to appreciate it more; when they thought they were not going to have their second-choice painting, they lost interest in it. This suggests to me that the “transition optional” group is bigger than we think.  I personally can think of a few things that might have been better in my life if I had transitioned, like shaving, but since I know those things aren’t going to change I try to make the best of them and focus on the good things, like strength.  I’d imagine that if I had decided to transition back in 1995, I’d be trying to make the best of hormones or whatever, and focusing on the positive aspects of post-transition life.  I’ll talk about the second big thing later. Articles Categorization The “transition optional” group is larger than you might think One of the strongest arguments in favor of gender transition is that the person may commit suicide.  They may also engage in other self-destructive behaviors like cutting or drug abuse, which carry the risk of accidental death.  If the risk of self-destructive behavior is high for a person, I think most people would agree that transition is the better option. A major problem, though, is that there are people who commit suicide after transition.  As with all suicides, it is impossible to know in any given case whether a person’s transition was a factor in their decision to kill themselves, but in some cases at least it is clear that transition made them less satisfied with their lives.  If we accept that the risk of suicide after transition is higher for a person, then we can agree that not transitioning is the better option. There are others who might not commit suicide, but who are miserable in their assigned gender and have exhausted all options for improvement.  Most people would probably agree that transition is appropriate.  A fourth group would probably not commit suicide if they transitioned, but they would be miserable.  Most people would probably agree that transition is not appropriate. Then there is a group who would be equally satisfied with either option.  I would probably put myself in the fifth, “transition optional” group.  I have chosen not to transition, but if I were to wake up one day in the body of a postoperative transsexual, I would live that life and try to enjoy it to the fullest.  I should point out here that I’ve made all these groups the same size.  I do not mean to suggest that they all contain the same number of people.  I don’t know how many people are in any of these groups. I want to stress that all of us on this spectrum have the same transgender feelings.  We all feel a desire to be a different gender from the one they were assigned.  Some may feel that desire stronger than others, and some may feel a competing desire to remain in their assigned gender, but on the basis of feelings we are all transgender. Articles Categorization Transition or die Comment on Notice of Availability of Proposed Data Collection Standards for Race, Ethnicity, Primary Language, Sex, and Disability Status Required by Section 4302 of the Affordable Care Act (Document ID HHS-OMH-2011-0013-0001) The deadline to submit your comment is Monday, August 1, 2011! As a transgender person and a social scientist, I am excited to hear that HHS will be collecting information relating to transgender phenomena.   These activities have the potential to bring us valuable information about the prevalence of transgender feelings, thoughts, beliefs and actions in the general population, beyond an often self-selected community that identifies as transgender and participates in the existing surveys.  As a social scientist I have some longstanding concerns about the collection and presentation of survey data about transgender individuals, and I hope that your work will improve the situation.  Here are some recommendations that I have, for the process of deciding what data to collect and how, and for the data collection itself. In my experience, many organizations and agencies working with transgender communities repeatedly and consistently make generalizations about transgender populations that are unsupported by any data.  For example, the Transgender Law Center found 194 transpeople through unrepresentative “convenience” techniques, of whom 114 reported annual incomes of less than $15,333.  A cover article in the San Francisco Bay Guardian summarized it as, “In other words, more than half of local transgender people live in poverty” – an incorrect characterization that was not disputed by the study authors.  As any introductory statistics textbook will tell you, prevalence in a convenience sample tells you nothing about prevalence in the general population.  No one knows if the sample was representative of “local transgender people.”  Presenting it as representative is misleading to the public and can lead to inappropriate funding allocations and badly targeted health initiatives, and possibly even a backlash against transgender people. I believe that convenience samples can be very useful, for example to show the existence of job discrimination, poverty and prostitution in our community.  There is a limit to their usefulness, however, and they are consistently used beyond that limit by social service providers and community advocates.  The result is to spread unreliable information, and quite probably to waste taxpayer money and charitable contributions. Reports like this are often accompanied by a disclaimer; the Bay Guardian article said, “TLC doesn’t claim the study is strictly scientific — all respondents were identified through trans organizations or outreach workers.”  Unfortunately, they almost always go on to report the data as if the disclaimer were meaningless: the next sentence reads, “But the data give a fairly good picture of how hard it is for transgender people to find and keep decent jobs, even in the city that is supposed to be most accepting of them.”  The reporting of percentages invites this kind of lip service to sampling procedure.  Percentages are meaningless in these situations, but they are always reported, and the effect is to dismiss the disclaimer as a formality, encouraging media reporters to do the same. On your website I see that you anticipate that the Williams Institute and the Fenway Institute will play a strong role in helping you formulate procedures for collecting information on transgender communities.  I agree that they have done a lot of good work, and I support their inclusion in any round tables that you convene.  However, both institutes have a history of presenting convenience samples as representative.  I strongly recommend that you balance their participation with people who are knowledgeable about the appropriate use of sampling. I am a strong advocate of qualitative research as a means of finding out problems that exist in the world.  There are several advocates from the transgender community who have done quality ethnographic and autoethnographic work.  One that I know personally is Gail Kramer, who has written the books My Husband Betty and She’s Not the Man I Married under the pseudonym Helen Boyd.  I urge you to include in your Roundtables at least one qualitative researcher like Helen. To my knowledge, only one researcher has done a representative sample of any segment of the transgender community.  That is Niklas Långström of the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden.  I strongly recommend that Långström, or someone familiar with his survey, be part of your Roundtables.  I am also willing to participate, as a transgender person interested in these issues and as a social scientist who has used representative sampling in my professional work. Articles Bad stats Good research My comment on transgender data collection I’ve noticed that transgender health researchers tend to focus on people with health problems, and that makes sense.  Consequently, I’ve often felt a bit guilty talking about transgender health issues.  I don’t have a sexually transmitted disease, the worst thing I’m addicted to is sugar, I’ve never been bashed, and I’m not depressed or suicidal.  So why should I talk about my health?  Why would any researcher want to study someone like me? The answer comes from Sherlock Holmes, in the story “The Silver Blaze”: Gregory ( Scotland Yard detective): “Is there any other point to which you would wish to draw my attention?” Holmes: “To the curious incident of the dog in the night-time .” Gregory: “The dog did nothing in the night-time .” Holmes: “That was the curious incident.” There’s a fancy word for this: negative evidence.  Often, the absence of a salient event can tell you more about the causes of a problem than a hundred events.  I see this all the time in my computer consulting business.  If a customer is not getting an image on their computer monitor, it could be caused by a fault in the motherboard, the video card, the video cable, or the monitor.  I can turn on the computer and get a blank screen a hundred times, but that doesn’t help me figure out which component is causing the problem. If I can get a picture even once, however, I can isolate the problem.  If I hook the computer up to a different monitor and the display comes on, I know that the monitor is the problem.  If I put in a different video card, I know the customer needs a new video card. This method can work with transgender health as well.  We are a diverse group, and there may be something in family background or upbringing that can make the difference between health and sickness.   There are many choices that we make in our lives, and those choices may affect our health.  We need to know the consequences of those choices.  Even if that knowledge doesn’t ultimately change our decisions, it can prepare us and allow us to plan better. That is why we need to hear about a whole range of transgender people, not just those that the researchers were able to track down. Articles Bad stats Categorization The curious incident of the healthy transwoman I wanted to go into a bit more detail about something I’ve mentioned before: that the use of non-representative samples can cause problems down the line.  To illustrate this, I want to examine the claims of health disparities that Emilia Dunham lists in her Bay Windows article.  Transgender people take more hormones and have have more surgeries than average. Transgender people smoke at a 30% prevalence rate, and use other substances to cope with the stress from discrimination. We’re more likely to suffer from depression and anxiety, and more likely to live with HIV. 61 – 64% of transgender people have been physically or sexually assaulted. 41% of transgender people have attempted suicide. All these percentages skyrocket for transgender people of color and low-income folks. A startling 1 in 5 transgender people have experienced complete refusal of services from healthcare providers. If transgender people aren’t referred to with correct names or pronouns or are treated with coldness, they may avoid the office.  Of these statements, only the last one is an existential statement.  All the others are statements of prevalence or likelihood that are not generalizable without a representative sample.  In my impression, some of them are more likely to be true of the entire transgender population than others.  There are chains of causation from transgender actions to these disparities, and the chains are not all the same.  Here are some possible causal chains.  They are not the only possible ones, but they are the ones that seem likely to me. First there are the inherent consequences of transgender actions: more hormones and surgery.  If you’re only concerned with transpeople who choose to take hormones and undergo surgery, then of course this is true.  But if you believe that not all transpeople choose hormones or surgery, and you don’t know how many do, then you have no way of knowing how great these disparities are. Then there is harassment based on perceptible differences: physical and sexual assault.  A lot of this has to do with passing – as one gender or another, not necessarily the one you prefer.  The passing does not have to be total: a transperson can avoid a lot of harassment simply by avoiding being noticed.  However, note that there is a feedback loop here regarding socioeconomic status: wealthier transpeople can afford higher quality hormones, surgery, hair removal or attachment, clothes, padding, cosmetics and training that can give them (us) a better chance of passing as the target gender. There is also discrimination based on records or perceptible differences: refusal of healthcare service.  There can also be housing, consumer and job discrimination, which can affect some of the factors below. A transgender person has a number of potential reactions to the harassment or discrimination described above, including: avoidance of healthcare providers, depression, anxiety, substance abuse, suicide attempts.  Out of fear of discovery, many transpeople engage in hidden sexual activities, where there is a greater risk of HIV infection. Completing the vicious cycle I described above are the consequences of poverty, which may in turn result from discrimination: there is greater likelihood of harassment and discrimination (and the consequences that follow from that harassment and discrimination) and sex work (which increases the likelihood of HIV infection). I know from personal experience, from friends’ anecdotes and from online reading that these disparities do not affect all transgender people.  Some people do not choose hormones, some do not choose surgery.  Some never take publicly visible transgender actions, and others pass well enough, so they are never harassed or discriminated against.  Some are able to deal with the harassment or discrimination they experience without resorting to depression, anxiety or substance abuse, or attempting suicide (which is not a judgment against those who are unable).  Some are able to avoid unprotected sex.  Some are wealthy enough to avoid the consequences of poverty. Here’s the problem with sampling: Dunham and other researchers have no way of knowing for sure whether they’ve oversampled from those who choose hormones and/or surgery; those who take publicly visible transgender actions; those who don’t pass enough of the time to avoid harassment or discrimination; those who already have tendencies towards depression, anxiety, substance abuse, suicide or casual sex, for unrelated reasons; and those who have lower incomes.   After all, these are precisely the populations that public health researchers are more likely to come into contact with.  Without representative samples, they can never prove that these disparities exist to the extent that they claim. Now I want you to imagine that these researchers actually have been oversampling these higher-risk populations.  On one level the consequences are minimal: if these are the populations with the greatest need, then it’s just another way to spend public health dollars on the people who need them the most.  But on the image level and the credibility level, there are problems. I’ve seen on the Web and on television that some people have a stereotype of “tranny” that combines all these factors: a drug-addicted, unpassable, mentally ill hooker with bad plastic surgery.  Some people use that stereotype to justify harassment and discrimination against transgender people, and some family members fight against accepting their relative’s transgender feelings because they fear that this will be their fate.  These kinds of unsupported survey results feed into those stereotypes. What if at some point someone does succeed in doing a representative survey, and finds that the drug-addicted, cigarette-smoking sex workers are a small portion of the transgender population, and that the average transgender person is a drug- and disease-free, well-adjusted, successful computer technician making $60,000 a year?  What if all the transgender health money was actually better spent on overlapping programs that would serve the needy population just as well?  I think someone might feel cheated, and I think there might be a backlash. There’s also the possibility that we might be missing out on some valuable information.  What if we found that there were people who had the exact same background, and the exact same transgender feelings, but one group became drug-addicted HIV-positive hookers and the other became successful computer technicians?  We could examine the populations and see what made the difference between health and sickness.  It might not be the obvious solution. This is why we need representative sampling, and this is why you need to comment on the proposal and tell that to Secretary Sebelius. Articles Bad stats Media The consequences of sampling bias The Department of Health and Human Services has just made a big announcement: they will begin collecting data on LGBT issues, including transgender issues. The goal is to document disparities in health care, as well as plain old disparities in health, so that they can be addressed in the future. The plan is to have two roundtables on “gender identity data collection” with “key experts” this summer and fall, and then the “Data Council” will present a strategy next spring.  The department will also collect public comment in various ways, one being through a website called regulations.gov, which is currently down. If done right, this could be a tremendous help to understanding transgender issues.  “The first step is to make sure we are asking the right questions,”  HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius told the Washington Post. “Sound data collection takes careful planning to ensure  that accurate and actionable data is being recorded.”  As I’ve written before, current research on transgender feelings and actions is severely hampered by the lack of any kind of representative sample.  Just to give you a quick sense, here are ten very basic questions that nobody knows the answer to:  How many transgender people are there? How common are the various transgender thoughts, feelings and beliefs? How common are transgender actions like cross-dressing, body modifications, and “soft mods” like shaving? How common are transgender name and pronoun changes? How common are part-time cross-living and full time transition? How often are sexual activities part of transgender activities? How common are diseases and destructive habits among transgender populations? How many transgender people are in long-term relationships? How often are various subgroups targeted by violence and discrimination? How satisfied are transsexuals twenty, thirty or forty years post-transition?  Unfortunately, transgender research is dominated by two camps, the pathologists who make unfounded generalizations based on case studies of their own patients, and the social service providers who make unfounded generalizations based on service recipients, Internet surveys and word of mouth.  Neither of them seem to have understood the idea that while convenience samples can provide the basis for many useful existential statements, prevalence statements based on unrepresentative samples are worthless. At this point it looks like the roundtables will be heavily influenced by social service providers who only pay lip service to the limitations of their research.  The Plan says, “While HHS is in the beginning stages of developing  data collection on gender identity, many researchers (e.g., Williams  Institute at the University of California Los Angeles and the Center for  Population Research in LGBT Health at the Fenway Institute) have been  working on such data collection for several years.”  The Williams Institute produces reports like “Bias in the Workplace” (PDF), an important summary of numerous studies investigating workplace discrimination that repeatedly acknowledges that the studies are based on convenience samples – and then goes ahead and repeats percentage results as though they meant something. The Fenway Institute employs transgender health advocate Emilia Dunham as a Program Associate, and she also hosted a webinar on the issue.  It seems quite likely that she will be one of the experts at the roundtables.  But in an otherwise solid article for Bay Windows presenting these changes at Health and Human Services, Dunham uncritically repeated several of these unsupported percentages. There is a very short list of Experts who I think should be on these Roundtables.  The strongest research into transgender issues has been qualitative research: listening, reading and introspection, finding existential statements but not making unsupported claims of prevalence.  I’ve said before that the best qualitative researcher in the transgender community is Helen Boyd, author of My Husband Betty.  At Helen’s recommendation I’ve also read a few things by Raven Kaldera that have been pretty good, particularly his post on female transvestites (which has somehow disappeared from his website). There is only one person out there who has ever collected data from a representative sample of any transgender community, and that’s Niklas Långström of the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden.  He’s not focused on the transgender community, and he’s associated with the pathologist Kenneth Zucker (who is not someone we want involved), but he does know how to do a national survey, and it would be worth every penny for HHS to fly him over from Stockholm for the Roundtables. If they can’t get Långström, then I want to be on that Roundtable.  I don’t have a degree in psychology or public health, but I did take an elementary course in statistics, and I learned what you have to do in order to make a generalization.  But what matters more than any qualification is that I care about doing this right.  If they can’t find anyone else who does, I want to be there. Am I missing anyone?  Are you doing quality quantitative research?  Please let me know. Articles Bad stats General News Good research A critical opportunity in transgender research If you read my blog at all, you know I have very little patience for transgender dogma.  I don’t have much more patience for the Blanchard model either, but it seems to be the most popular alternative.  Alice Dreger is right that my “community leaders” have been nasty to Ray Blanchard and friends, but she also seems to think that Blanchard’s theory is actually worth something.  Last month I posted about the difficulties of coming out about transvestite sexuality, and I got a very nice email from someone who asked if that was the same as “autogynephilia.”  I found the blog of a therapist who questions transition, and she recommends that parents of dysphoric children read Michael Bailey’s The Man Who Would Be Queen. Of all the books I could recommend to an anxious parent, The Man Who Would Be Queen is one of my last choices.  If you forced me to choose between that and a transition-cheerleading book I would probably throw them both in the pulping bin.  It’s a nasty, polemical, judgmental screed that offers little hope to any trans people.  And that, really, is the message I’ve gotten from the entire Blanchard camp. Ray Blanchard developed his dichotomy between “autogynephilic” and “homosexual transsexuals” in the 1980s, based on work by Kurt Freund and others in the late 1960s and early 1970s,* when the primary mission of therapists working with trans people was gatekeeping.  There was a real danger that people would make all kinds of body modifications, get fired from their jobs and ostracized by their friends and family, and wind up broke and destitute.  They found that the “HSTS” were more likely to succeed in their transitions – and in those days that meant blending into society post-transition and being able to live “stealth.” There was probably some value in the “HSTS/autogynephilia” dichotomy as a gatekeeping heuristic, just like there was some value in the “we’re all women trapped in men’s bodies” idea for getting people to relate to transgender ideas at all, but they’re both based on wild oversimplifications, ignoring a vast quantity of exceptions.  Both camps have spun elaborate essentialist theories and spent the past thirty years searching for biological evidence to support those theories, and neither camp has come up with anything particularly satisfactory. My biggest beef with Blanchard, Bailey and friends is that as far as I’m concerned, they’ve done fuck-all to help me and other trans people to cope with trans feelings.  I decided not to transition with no help from them, I came out of the closet a year later with no help from them, and I’ve spent the 21 years since figuring out how to live out and proud without transitioning.  Where is their guide to doing that?  It’s not there.  All they cared about for decades was preventing me from transitioning (didn’t want to anyway), and attacking the Everybody Must Transition dogmatists. I wish I could offer the therapist a book she could recommend to worried parents instead of Bailey’s book.  For that matter, I wish I could offer a book that people could recommend instead of Julia Serano’s book.  The problem is that the parents want certainty.  They want a book that will tell them How Things Are, and What To Do.  But the fact is that when it comes to transgender feelings we don’t know how things are.  We don’t know what to do.  We’re all fumbling blindly in the dark.  The difference is that some of us are prepared to admit it. * I had originally said that Blanchard developed his taxonomy in the late 1960s and early 1970s.  Someone wrote to correct that.  I regret the error. Actions Articles Categorization Kludges Media Don’t recommend Bailey either I’ve talked before about the value of being out of the closet – the global political value.  But being out can be valuable in a more direct, immediate way.  It can save us from the closet. When I first started cross-dressing, I knew that it was not acceptable.  I had heard so many people making fun of transvestites that I didn’t think that anyone would value or support me if I told them I was one.  For over a year I did my cross-dressing in secrecy and isolation. One day my mother came into my room and said, “This closet is a mess!  I’ve given you so many chances to clean it up.  Now I’m going to do it.” I said, “Okay, Mom, but just don’t open the top drawer.” “What’s in the top drawer?” “Just don’t look in it.” “Angus, what’s in the top drawer?” After a few more rounds of this, I told her.  Her response was not as bad as it could have been (the horror stories we’ve heard about teenagers being rejected by their parents, thrown out of the house, beaten, or even killed), but it was not encouraging.  I won’t go into too much detail, since she apologized for it many years ago, but she was ashamed, and worried that I might be gay.  She insisted that I go to therapy, which was probably a good idea, but I didn’t even mention cross-dressing to the first therapist.  The second one was helpful in various ways, but not with regards to this issue. I avoided talking to my mom about cross-dressing after that, until I came out in general.  That meant that I was pretty much alone in the closet for another fourteen years.  And that time was hell.  I don’t know which was worse, the feeling of shame when I cross-dressed, or the feeling of relief when I purged.  Every time the topic came up in general conversations with anyone other than my mother I had to remain silent, afraid that I would be ostracized if anyone found out.  The chronic fear of being found out was a source of discomfort throughout my teen and college years. Since I’ve come out, I know that there is a group of people that I can rely on, who have shown me that they support me no matter what I’m wearing.  I don’t need to feel ashamed around them.  Even if I don’t feel comfortable telling absolutely everyone, it’s still liberating to know that there are many people who don’t judge me for my gender expression. Unfortunately, it took a long time for me to feel comfortable coming out.  I had to tell one person at a  time, until I knew that there were enough people who supported me.  This is why one of my goals is to encourage widespread, open, vocal support of non-conforming gender expression, so that the teenagers of tomorrow can live outside the closet. A simple thing you can do for trans people is to say something supportive every time the topic comes up.  You can do this for gay men, lesbians, bisexuals, cyclists, or any disenfranchised group.  You might want to have a handy phrase or two ready ahead of time.  And if you can’t think of anything supportive to say, educate yourself! Articles The closet The closet corrodes your soul It’s been years since I wrote about principles of transgenderism.  It’s funny, when I think about it, how I was so deep into discussions of transgender issues at the time that I just wanted to get down the things that separated my thoughts from some of the prevailing ideas.  But now, I realize that I should add another principle that’s more important than the eight I listed, and I think it’s one that just about every transgender person would agree on.  It’s implied in all of my work in this area, but I want to come right out and say it: No one deserves to be hurt or killed just because they’re transgender. Pretty obvious, huh?  Well, I guess it’s not so obvious to the bashers and killers.  But to me it’s the top priority in anything transgender-related.  We can make it Principle One and move all the others down, or make it the Zeroth Principle like Isaac Asimov.  Either way, I can’t think of anything more important. Articles Violence The First Principle Tonight I came across this interview about GLB issues with Barack Obama, and one passage in particular resonated with me: A college professor of mine helped me to see the lives of LGBT people from a different perspective. He was the first openly gay professor that I had ever come in contact with, or openly gay person of authority that I had come in contact with. And he was just a terrific guy.  His comfort in his own skin and the friendship we developed helped to educate me on a number of these issues. I, too, had an experience like that: a fellow student of mine who was willing to tell anyone and everyone that he was gay.  Steve wasn’t an authority figure (although I would meet plenty later), but still an example of pride and self-acceptance who inspired me to reexamine and discard my homophobia.  I had known many closet cases and “don’t ask, don’t tell” gay men, lesbians and bisexuals, and their own shame and fear had given me license to judge them.  I just couldn’t do that with Steve, and after a while I realized that I couldn’t do it with myself either. This is the reason why I think we non-transition-track transgender people (transvestites, cross-dressers, etc.) should practice some verbal hygiene on the term “out” and stop using it to describe someone who cross-dresses in public settings that are still anonymous, and who doesn’t disclose their transgenderism to their family, friends, neighbors or co-workers.  Of course there’s such a thing as too much information, but there are times when people need to know that we’re transgender. Clearly our next president benefited from the information he got from his professor, and more importantly, from his professor’s own self-acceptance and self-respect.  The gay and lesbian communities have benefited from Obama’s acceptance and respect.  If transvestites ever hope to be accepted and respected, we have to accept and respect ourselves, and be out of the closet.  And this kind of “out” has very little to do with clothes: we can be out to our friends and neighbors without them ever seeing us in a skirt, wig or maid costume.  All it takes is these three words, “I’m a transvestite.”  Could you say them to Barack Obama?  Could you say them, with pride, to a student who might some day be president? Update. August 2009: I just discovered that Steve’s husband died tragically in March.  Steve wrote for Americablog about how some of his experiences afterwards highlighted the connection between being out, marriage equality and respect.  Last week, he wrote about how it related to his lexicography work. Articles The closet Verbal Hygiene The Value of Being Out In the light of the recent news that sportswriter Mark Penner has detransitioned, I went back and looked at an earlier post on regret.  I noticed that I had linked to Cora Birk’s writings on her partial transition and subsequent de-transition, but that they have since been removed from the site. However, Birk’s columns are still available via the Internet Archive, and since the last one, especially, is particularly well-written, I would like to share some excerpts: It is still (and always has been) true that I want to be female. However, somewhere along the way, I appear to have convinced myself that this desire was much more than a simple, harmless wish — that it was a yearning, that if I didn’t get what I wanted I couldn’t possibly go on. I’m not exactly sure when this happened, though I do suspect an intense psychological imprinting experience sometime in 1998. […] I embraced transsexuality, I think, because I was extremely uncomfortable with the other terminology I was hearing. If I was merely a crossdresser of one kind or another, I was nothing more than a largely misunderstood pervert with an extensive makeup collection. But if I was transsexual… then I was validated. I could be helped. I could go on hormones and one day have sex reassignment, all under the protection of politically correct GLBT activists who would see my condition as something to be proud of. I could hold my head high in parades, and everyone around me would put aside their native discomfort with the situation and use all the right pronouns. My take on this is that the decision about whether or not to transition would be a lot easier if we didn’t have to deal with rigid categories and arguments based on destiny.  Over at the Trans Group Blog, Helen, Julie and Marlena all allude to the question of whether Penner is “really a transsexual.”  To their great credit, they refuse to consider it, but their use still implies that they believe it’s a valid question, and that people who are “really” transsexuals should transition. Let me put this out there: if we assume that there are “true transsexuals” and “false transsexuals” out there, isn’t it possible that there are “true transsexuals” who would turn out to be happier in their birth genders, and “false transsexuals” who would manage to be quite content after transition? Articles Categorization James “Cora” Birk on Transition and Regret I don’t have much to say about this now, but Sports by Brooks reports that sportswriter Mike Penner has detransitioned.  I have very little interest in spectator sports, so I’ve never heard of this guy.  Does that make me a true transgender? Of course not; just kidding.  (Or rather, it has no bearing on the trueness of my transgenderism.)  Thanks to Kate at Deep Glamour for the link. Articles Categorization General News New Celebrity Detransitioner A year or two back I came across Sir James Frazer’s The Golden Bough, and was blown away by the theory underlying it.  I have to admit that I haven’t read much more of it yet than the first couple of chapters, but the rest, from what I can tell, is details about particular beliefs.  What fascinated me most was Frazer’s division of beliefs into four categories, based on what is being related to and how.  He makes a distinction between science and magic, as follows: “The fatal flaw of magic lies not in its general assumption of a sequence of events determined by law, but in its total misconception of the nature of the particular laws which govern that sequence.”  Science and magic are both rule-governed, but magic misunderstands the rules.  Religion, by contrast, is personal: But if religion involves, first, a belief in superhuman beings who rule the world, and, second, an attempt to win their favour, it clearly assumes that the course of nature is to some extent elastic or variable, and that we can persuade or induce the mighty beings who control it to deflect, for our benefit, the current of events from the channel in which they would otherwise flow. Now this implied elasticity or variability of nature is directly opposed to the principles of magic as well as of science, both of which assume that the processes of nature are rigid and invariable in their operation, and that they can as little be turned from their course by persuasion and entreaty as by threats and intimidation. The distinction between the two conflicting views of the universe turns on their answer to the crucial question, Are the forces which govern the world conscious and personal, or unconscious and impersonal?     Things (rule-governed) People (relationships, prayer)   Empirical Science Society   Faith-based Magic Religion    Frazer does not really discuss the fourth quadrant of the chart, dealing with non-supernatural beings on a personal level, but it’s not very relevant to the main point, which is situating magic with respect to science and religion. Articles Glamour Magical Thinking A couple of years ago I recommended to you Virginia Postrel for her insightful discussions of glamour, and argued that they’re relevant to transgenderism and transvestism.  Now Postrel has started a new blog focusing on glamour, as part of a new book she’s writing on the subject.  This is definitely good stuff. Growing out of a discussion of whether a McCain presidential campaign ad aims to present Obama as the Antichrist, Postrel has a great post about the relationship between glamour and horror.  She writes: While horror comes in different forms, some decidedly unglamorous (e.g., Alien, Saw), a lot of horror, including vampire tales, depends on glamour: What starts out as beautiful and alluring is revealed to be terrible and life-destroying–and by then it’s too late. Witness not only the vampire but the femme fatale, especially in her 19th-century form. Glamour promises escape and transformation; horror replaces escape with entrapment. (With regard to gross-out “horror” movies like Saw and Friday the 13th, I’d say that they’re more appropriately called “terror movies.”  Sadly, that term has now been appropriated by the terrorism frame, but before that there were some insightful discussions of the contrast between terror and horror.) This explanation of horror helps me to understand some of the various “trans fatale” movies (Dressed to Kill, Homicidal, M Butterfly): if the idea of the femme fatale plays off of men’s fears of unexpectedly strong women, then the trans fatale has the glamour of being beautiful and alluring, but are even more threatening because they can be imagined to possess the physical strength and aggression (and ability to rape) of men. Going further, it seems connected to the “trans panic” that some men have claimed: they believed they were kissing a vulnerable woman, and on discovering that the person was male they were overwhelmed with the fear that they had been seduced and would be raped or killed.  This is often, horribly, used to justify beating and even killing the trans person.  Of course, a male who is small or slim enough to pass as a vulnerable woman usually has no more strength than a woman that size, and any trans woman on hormones probably doesn’t have much ability or desire to penetrate a man, but reality plays very little role in any of this. Deconstructing glamour with reality is actually an effective comedy technique, and this can explain why so many people find cross-dressing funny.  Since men have many of the traits that are considered unattractive in women (hairy, sweaty, big bellies), but more commonly and to a greater degree, a cross-dressed man can produce just enough cues to project the image of a glamorous woman (long wig, long legs, short skirt) before shattering that image with a hairy belly.  The humor is a bit broad for my taste, but it clearly works for many people, as shown by the enduring popularity of Benny Hill and Martin Lawrence. Articles General News Glamour Media Violence Glamor, Horror and the Trans Fatale Sometimes trans dogma can be funny when it paints itself into a corner.  Here’s an example from the current news about Thomas Beatie.  Beatie is a transman who just gave birth to a baby girl.  This Metafilter thread claims that he’s “first legally transgendered man to become pregnant.”  This is just one of the many Bogus Transgender Firsts. Back in 2004 there was a transwoman who claimed to be the first transgender delegate to the Democratic National Convention.  A little googling revealed that there was a trans Carter delegate in 1976, and possibly a trans delegate to the 1968 convention.  Ever since then I’ve been skeptical about Transgender Firsts.  Some transpeople, despite paying lip service to the idea that transpeople have been around forever, seem to think that history began some time around 1998. Metafilter user Grapefruitmoon managed to assert the notion that Beatie is the First Pregnant Transgendered Man even while linking to an article in the London Telegraph that contradicted this claim.  A little bit of thought suggests that this Transgender First is highly unlikely. We know that people have been cross-dressing and cross-living for thousands of years, and expressing feelings that could broadly be considered transgender for about as long.  Many transgender people claim them as spiritual forefathers and foremothers, even though if Henri III were alive today they’d probably bounce him out of the support group for not taking hormones.  If you want to claim that the Abbé de Choisy or Billy Tipton were trans, you’d guess that there have been transmen for as long as there have been men. In the essentialist point of view, transgenderism begins in the womb, if not in the genes.  Along these lines, if you accept someone as transgender they are eternally transgender, whether they’ve had any body modifications or not.  This is always a source of laughs when people who were “heterosexual cross-dressers” last week all of a sudden become eternally transgender, provoking a desperate flurry of revisionism.  More to the point, if you accept the notion of Eternal Transgenderism, not only was Beatie a man his entire life, but so was everyone who can be corralled into the Transmen Through History exhibit. Reading through some of the lives of pre-testosterone-injection transmen, it seems that most of them began to live as men quite young.  A cursory search doesn’t turn up any record of any of them having been pregnant, but there are plenty of transmen who are attracted to men, and plenty of others who’ve tried to conform and live as women for part of their lives.  There are also, shamefully, transmen who’ve been raped.  Whether or not it was something he desired or intended, it seems pretty likely that some transman must have become pregnant some time in the past. I’d even venture to say that Beatie is probably not the first transman married to a woman who can’t bear children.  I could imagine a transman who passed as a man for years, married a woman who knew his secret, and then found himself in a situation like Beatie’s.  I can imagine this transman conceiving a child in one way or another, arranging to go on a trip somewhere with his wife, living as a woman for long enough to deliver a healthy baby, and returning as a happy father and mother. Just because I can imagine something doesn’t mean it happened, and I don’t know of any documented case of a transman becoming pregnant before Beatie.  Maybe it never happened, but it’s irresponsible to keep claiming “firsts” without making any attempt to actually check whether something is the first.  Beatie was quite likely the first pregnant transgender man to be featured on Oprah, but history was old before Oprah. Grapefruitmoon could possibly get around this by using the phrase “legally transgendered man.”  But I don’t know of any legal certification for transgenderism.  There’s clinical diagnosis, but I don’t know if Beatie has one.  Beatie has legally changed his gender, but before the era of birth certificates it was possible to do that by simply passing for long enough to establish an identity. There is a word for what Grapefruitmoon meant: “first known.”  This provides some protection, at least. Articles Categorization General News Media Verbal Hygiene The first pregnant man? Dan Gilbert, author of Stumbling on Happiness, discusses the psychology of happiness, satisfaction and decision-making in this TED Talk video. Articles Feelings General News Good research Media Why are we happy? The victims only had minor injuries, but the pattern is disturbing.  The Times has the story and a more in-depth piece.  According to NY1, Daniel Dromm and others rallied to condemn the attacks. Articles General News Media Violence Carmen’s Place Director and Residents Attacked In 2009 I wrote about identity stress, which Norah Vincent captured so strikingly in her book Self-Made man, and Robin Williams dramatized in the over-the-top climactic scenes in Mrs. Doubtfire.  Identity stress refers to the difficulty of maintaining two distinct identities, each with its own appearance, voice, movement, name, pronouns, documents, and social relationships. It can be the factor that finally pushes people to transition, even if they decided long ago not to. It has not escaped my attention that having two separate identities is only one way to deal with conflicting gender feelings.  Many people have pointed out that this is one of the approaches that minimize confrontation with the gender binary. A lot of people I’ve met choose to push back on gender norms and adopt a single nonbinary identity.  That can mean either a narrow range of gender presentations focused on traits that are not strongly marked for either gender, or a broad range from high femme one day to extreme butch the next.  The key is that the person generally retains the same name, pronouns, voice and gestures regardless of what they’re wearing. The people I know who adopt nonbinary approaches tell me that there’s a lot of stress involved there as well.  They meet a lot of people who have trouble with unfamiliar pronouns or relatively new uses of pronouns.  It is common in our society to compliment people by pointing out how well they fit in one gender or another.  Some people feel very threatened if they can’t classify a person by gender, just as some feel threatened by people who change gender presentations. Even with that stress, a single nonbinary identity is probably a lot less stressful and more sustainable than investing a lot of time and energy in two separate identities.  I’m glad it works for some people, but it doesn’t fit well with my particular mix of feelings.  My desire is not to be a feminine man, but to be a feminine woman. My solution is to invest most of my time and energy in my masculine identity, while allowing myself to be as feminine as I feel in that identity, and to devote just enough time and energy to my feminine identity to keep myself from feeling resentful and rebelling.  So far it seems to be working for me. As far as I can tell, this is also what other non-transitioning feminine-spectrum trans people have done, like RuPaul and Eddie Izzard.  I’ll talk about the implications of that in a future post. Actions Articles Feelings Identity stress and nonbinary identities I just looked at this package in my cosmetics collection.  It says, Jean-Pierre Cosmetics Eye                    & Make Up Remover Cleansing Towelettes It’s not a short-term glitch; that’s the official name of the product. I had already used it when I noticed this, but I double-checked, and it didn’t remove any of my eyes.  Whew!  I guess it must actually be “face & eye make-up remover.” Of course, I bought this stuff months ago.  I knew exactly what it was when I bought it, and didn’t even notice the superficially-inaccurate description until a few minutes ago.  Just goes to show that language communicates well even when it doesn’t follow the rules of logic. Incidentally, it seems to be very effective at removing eye make-up without causing too much discomfort or drying my skin.  I’m satisfied. Articles Categorization Personal news Verbal Hygiene Be careful, you’ll put an eye out! I recently came across an interesting blog post about the MTA’s weird practice of having its commuter railroad conductors mark the gender of passengers on their monthly passes.  My friend Donna has experienced this on the Long Island Rail Road, and last week a blogger named Bobby posted his experience from the conductor’s point of view.  I posted a comment to Bobby’s blog linking to Donna’s post, but I couldn’t help adding a correction to another comment by someone named Laser72. Laser72 had tried to gently correct Bobby for referring to his passenger as a “cross dresser,” saying that since the passenger had a monthly pass, she probably spent a significant amount of time as a woman, and therefore “transgendered woman” was more appropriate. A crossdresser is a man or woman who dresses up as the opposite gender on a more temporary basis, usually just for fun, or as a sexual fetish. A transgendered person is someone who dresses and lives as the other gender on a much more permanent basis, usually full time … In response, I considered linking to my Feelings and Actions post, but I realized that that was way too in-depth and detailed for a casual blog reader to digest in one sitting.  I tried to write just a few sentences saying that I disagreed with Laser72’s categories, but Laser72 asked for clarification.  So now I’m trying to write something that’s shorter than the Feelings and Actions post, but still says enough. The main problem with Laser72’s categories is that the terms don’t always mean those things.  They’re ambiguous, and that ambiguity causes problems.  For example, when people say that they’ve “always been transgendered,” they don’t mean that they’ve always dressed and lived as the other on a permanent or full-time basis.  They mean that there are particular feelings that they’ve always had, and it’s quite well documented that many people who say that they’ve “always been transgendered” have in the past dressed up as the opposite gender on a temporary basis, for fun or as a sexual fetish.   If these people have really always been transgendered, then it’s not just possible but common to be transgender and a cross-dresser. The term “cross-dresser” is also problematic.  It was invented by people who cross-dressed but were uncomfortable with the term “transvestite,” which to them suggested cross-dressing just for fun, or as a sexual fetish, or even for prositution.  It was originally used to refer to anyone who dressed as “the opposite gender,” regardless of motivation.  Therefore, it could refer to transgender people, either before they start living full-time as their chosen gender, or when they dress as their birth gender temporarily, like Bobby’s passenger. This is why I think it’s better to use terms like “transgender” and “fetish” for feelings and motivations, and terms like “cross-dresser” for actions. Articles Categorization Feelings Verbal Hygiene Feelings or Actions, Condensed Blogger RachelPhilPa linked both to my post about Ian Harvie’s bathroom experience and a YouTube video of Christina Sforza describing her assault by the manager of the McDonalds on Fifth Avenue and 34th Street (which I also reported).  The video was taken a year later and nothing has been done.  Sforza’s story is very disturbing.  I admire her courage for pursuing justice after that kind of treatment.  Last year I emailed the staff of Council Speaker Quinn (the McDonald’s in question is in her district) and got some encouraging responses.  This Amnesty International report says that Quinn’s intervention allowed Sforza to file a complaint (it’s not clear whether against the manager or the police officers).  However, I have not heard anything since last year.  The report also gives contact information for Commissioner Kelly, an advisor to District Attorney Morgenthau and Speaker Quinn. Articles Bathrooms General News Media Violence Christina Sforza’s experience You may remember New York Daily News transit reporter Pete Donohue’s insensitive take on the Grand Central bathroom ruling last year.  Well, the News is at it again. This time I really believe that they’re trying to do something good: root out the Three Corruptions of waste, fraud and abuse at the MTA.  Most of their findings and implied recommendations are spot-on: the MTA doesn’t need a completely separate administrative hierarchy in every sub-agency, with its own set of lawyers, for instance.  And if, as Aaron Donovan admits, the “housing allowance” for executives is not actually for housing but really just a part of their salary, it shouldn’t be counted separately.  But one thing struck me as bizarre: BATHROOM ATTENDANTS There are 21 bathroom attendants at Grand Central making $16,270 to $53,867 a year. Says Metro-North: “700,000 pass through each day, 10,000 meals are sold and they all have to pee.” This is simply stated by the News reporters in a sidebar without any comment; the implication is that it’s either waste, fraud or abuse.  But come on: Grand Central has at least three sets of bathrooms (although I can’t remember ever seeing more than two sets open at once).  I think the Metro-North response is more than reasonable.  With 700,000 people passing through every day, you’d expect at least, what, 35,000 to use the bathrooms?  There are only 21 people to clean up after them, and given that the terminal is open seven days a week, 20 hours a day, that’s really at most two people working at any given time.   Most of the time, probably only one person. Is the “waste” in the salaries?  I really, really don’t get all these people who have a particular idea about what certain jobs should pay.  In October we had the Subwayblogger arguing that people scraping gum off the subway platforms shouldn’t make more than $38,000 a year.  Now we’ve got the Daily News who seem to think that people who wipe shit off the floor don’t deserve to make – what? it’s not clear because they just leave it unsaid.  Certainly not $53,867. In my book, someone who spends their days cleaning bathrooms, and frequently has to wipe up some bum’s diarrhea, or some Scarsdale party girl’s vomit, deserves every penny of that $53,867.  That’s about as much as I made when I was a full-time computer support tech, and a bathroom attendant job is at least as demanding and deserving as the job I had. This is the same kind of thinking that gets people blabbering about illegal immigrants being required to do “the jobs Americans won’t do.”  As this Slate article succinctly argues, it’s not that Americans won’t do those jobs, it’s that they won’t do them for the small amount of money the employers are offering, at the long hours, oppressive conditions and humiliating environment they demand.  If you pay them decent wages, give them decent hours and safe, pleasant environments where they’re not being insulted all the time, Americans will be happy to mine coal, pick strawberries or mop pee off the floor.  But apparently Subwayblogger and the News reporters think that people who mop pee don’t deserve that. Let’s say that the Metro-North execs, scared by this News report, cut the Grand Central budget in half.  It would be an absolute disaster.  Unsafe stalls, broken facilities going unreported for hours, messes not getting cleaned up, you name it.  But most importantly – and here’s why this is in my Trans Blog – lower salaries for bathroom attendants.  Lower salaries means higher turnover, which means less experienced attendants.  Anyone who says this is a “semi-skilled” job is talking out their ass.  One important skill for a bathroom attendant is judging who’s a threat and who’s not, and knowing that trans people belong.  If you’ve got high turnover, that means that every couple of weeks you’ve got a new bathroom attendant who’s going to blow the whistle on some trans person in the bathroom.  Just what we need. I don’t see any waste, fraud or abuse in this aspect of the MTA.  If anything, $16,270 is low for even a part-time bathroom attendant.  Imagine if we quadrupled the budget for Grand Central bathroom attendants.  That means that bathroom attendants will actually be able to support a family in a decent apartment, and will probably stay on the job longer and take pride in their work.  It means less overtime and less stress for the attendants, which means they’ll do their jobs better and probably be nicer to the patrons.  It means that Grand Central will be able to open more than one set of bathrooms at a time, adding to convenience and cutting down on the lines that can sometimes get waaay out of hand.  I’d pay 4% more on my ticket to Irvington for that. Articles Bathrooms Media Reformers want to cut Grand Central bathroom budget There’s an issue that’s important to me, but that I haven’t really had much time to discuss here on my blog: safe places to change gender presentation.  I would love it if some day we can all leave our houses dressed as any gender (or combination of genders) we like.  In the meantime, it really helps to have a safe place where people can change gender presentation away from home. When I first asked about this at the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Community Center in 2000, I was told that changing clothes in the bathrooms was not allowed.  Things have changed significantly since then.  In 2004, Donna from the My Husband Betty message boards posted that there was an unofficial policy allowing people to change clothes in the “All-Gender” bathrooms on the second floor.  Within the next two years, that policy was made official and the rules against changing clothes were removed from the lists.  I have changed gender presentation several times in those bathrooms over the past three years, and the staff and other visitors have always been perfectly supportive. This, to me, is one of the most important “transgender community services” that a center can offer.  I hope you will agree with me, and tell that to the Center management when you take their Community Survey. Articles General News NYC-area readers: take the Center Survey Perusing Mark Liberman’s Language Log, I came across a post about an awesome study (PDF).  Yale psychology student Deena Skolnick Weisberg and her colleagues noticed that people seemed to like psychological explanations that contained a certain amount of neuroscience. Weisberg and her colleagues came up with a list of interesting psychological phenomena.  For each one, they created two explanations: a “good” one corresponding to the usual explanation given, and a “bad” one, which was usually circular.  They found that their subjects (who were not particularly knowledgeable about psychology) were capable of distinguishing the bad explanations from the good ones. The researchers changed the explanations, adding a few words of neuroscience that was consistent with the explanation.  They were very careful to ensure that it was identical to the explanation given, so that it added no new information.  The subjects who received the explanations with neuroscience were much less capable of distinguishing the bad explanations from the good ones.  Specifically, the researchers write, “the addition of such neuroscience information encouraged them to judge the explanations more favorably, particularly the bad explanations.  That is, extraneous neuroscience information makes explanations look more satisfying than they actually are, or at least more satisfying than they otherwise would be judged to be.” The study was repeated with students taking an introductory neuroscience course; unfortunately, “a semester’s worth of instruction is not enough to dispel the effect of neuroscience information on judgments of explanations.”  It was repeated again with experts in neuroscience, who were found to be immune to this effect. The authors conclude, “Since it is unlikely that the popularity of neuroscience findings in the public sphere will wane any time soon, we see in the current results more reasons for caution when applying neuroscientific findings to social issues.”  In other words, be skeptical and try to compensate for this effect. Articles Good research Blinding me with Neuroscience Streetsblog recently featured four different articles that highlighted the role of gender in the success of public spaces and practices.  In the first post, traffic psychologist Ian Walker attached proximity measuring equipment to test how closely (i.e. how dangerously) motorists came when overtaking him.  He found that they came closer when he wore a helmet than when he was bare-headed, presumably because they felt he would be protected if they hit him.  But they gave him the most space when he wore a long wig and (he assumed) passed for a woman from behind. In another post, the New York Observer reported that a new group of women are seen riding bikes in New York: young, attractive, and most importantly, forsaking jocky spandex for a host of femme signifiers: dresses, skirts, high heels, long hair, baskets, perfume, pink, Hello Kitty.  They include famous actresses and models such as Naomi Watts, Chloë Sevigny, Gisele Bundchen and, most recently, Sarah Michelle Gellar.  Streetsblog pointed out, however, that Copenhagen, um, women are way ahead of New York, riding bikes in skirts and heels in great numbers. Today, in a discussion of the soaring popularity of cycling in Portland, Oregon, the comments turned to Portland’s concern with the numbers of women cyclists.  “Women cyclists,” the city’s transportation office asserts, “are the indicators of a healthy bikeway network.” Streetsblog commenter Gretel pointed us to a New Yorker report about Danny Gordon, whose job is to count the numbers of men and women in Bryant Park, every day at lunchtime.  The idea comes from a man named Holly Whyte, a sociologist and founder of the Project for Public Spaces.   “Women pick up on visual cues of disorder better than men do,” Gordon’s boss, Bryant Park Corporation president Dan Biederman told the New Yorker. “They’re your purest customers. And, if women don’t see other women, they tend to leave.”  New Yorker writer Nick Paumgarten added, “Presumably, a female preponderance not only emboldens more women but also entices more men.” Paumgarten acknowledged that it’s not always easy to classify people by gender.  “Sometimes I’ll make it a man, sometimes I’ll make it a woman,” Gordon told him. “And, if I realize afterward that I was wrong, I’ll change the next person.”  For Biederman’s purposes it doesn’t matter if Gordon gets it slightly wrong, because what really matters is how many women are perceived to be in the park. Biederman’s assessment of the role of women in the success of a public space is probably correct, but I would guess that when safety is an issue (as it was in Bryant Park in the ’80s, and as it is in cycling now), the critical issue is that women, overall, are more vulnerable than men, and are perceived that way, by themselves and by others.  They pick up on visual cues of disorder because those are likely to be cues of danger for them.  When people see a place full of women (who aren’t being held captive in some way) they take that as a signal that the place is safe.  When people see women engaging in an activity, they take that as a signal that the activity is safe. I’ll even go further than Biederman and argue that the women aren’t all equal in that regard: the femmer the women, the more vulnerable they appear, and the more femme women, the safer the space appears.  If I see Bryant Park at midnight full of leather-clad women with crew cuts, I won’t get the same feeling of safety as if I see it full of women with long hair wearing high heels and dresses.  (Of course, there’s no feeling of safety if the women appear to be prostitutes.)   Similarly with cycling: a few frail-looking women in dresses indicate safety much more than a lot of athletic-looking women in spandex. How does transness fit into this?  I think it has a lot to do with passing.  An FTM once told me that he knew he passed when he saw a woman cross the street to avoid walking past him.  I knew I passed late one night when a strange woman curled up next to me on the subway and fell asleep.  Maybe some women would be reassured by seeing a non-passing MTF in the crowd, maybe they wouldn’t.  Something to look into, perhaps. Articles General News Media Violence Gender, Safety and Desirability Gothamist has summaries of the gossip that came out in 2003 about Larry Wachowski, one of the creators of the Matrix series.  After learning that he was dating a dominatrix who was Buck Angel’s ex, and started appearing in public with more feminine grooming (clean-shaven, long hair, make-up, fancier clothes and jewelry), the gossip columnists figured that there was only one explanation.  He’s getting a sex change (not that there’s anything wrong with that)! Of course, in November of that year Wired ran a story with this quote: “One source who knows the couple and the scene dismisses the sex change rumor, explaining that Larry is merely a cross-dresser, not a transsexual.”  But apparently this did not stop the rumors, and a Fox entertainment reporter was fully expecting to find a woman on the set of Speed Racer.  He didn’t.  He didn’t find Wachowski either, but everyone he interviewed said that Larry was still a guy. If Wachowski wanted to transition four years ago, with as much money and power as he has I’m guessing that he probably would have by now, but he hasn’t.  Maybe his girlfriend influenced his fashion sense.  Maybe it’s some BDSM thing.  Maybe he really is a cross-dresser.  The idea that The Matrix was partly written by a transgender person makes a lot of sense to me. Of course, it’s none of my business if he’s a transsexual, a cross-dresser, or something completely other.  But geez, will some people get it now that being trans doesn’t necessarily mean that you’re going to transition? Categorization General News Media Larry Wachowski still not transitioned Metafilter featured this interesting blog sponsored by the Sydney Morning Herald (and apparently named after this Nick Lowe song).  The guy may be a jerk, but he’s got some valuable insights, I think.  He did one of those “non-TG journalist cross-dresses for science!” pieces, which is more interesting than it might sound.  I was also impressed with how sensitive he was to trans people.  Also, he hooks up with a woman while cross-dressed, which (although not unheard of), is pretty cool.  My life as a woman My life as a woman: in the beginning On the town: Samantha gets lucky Samantha: getting deeper, getting out  (Bonus YouTube link in case you were wondering what Nick Lowe looks like when he’s really singing and playing – although I’ve never seen anyone play a bass with a pick before.  The guitarist and drummer are pretty sharp too.) General News Media Sam de Brito on cross-dressing An interesting event at Queens Pride House in Jackson Heights. Too bad I can’t go! *stay ALERT            series* June Event Activism,            Leadership, and Education for a Radical Takeover presents: “Policing in Queer & Trans Communities” with FIERCE! Thurs. June 14, 7-9pm, FREE F.I.E.R.C.E! will lead an interactive workshop and discussion that focuses on the history of policing in queer and trans communities, particularly in New York City, and what we can do about it. The workshop will be in English. Please RSVP to Lyndsey at 718-429-5309 or Lbeutin@queenspridehouse.org F.I.E.R.C.E! (Fabulous Independent Educated Radical for Community Empowerment!) is the 5th presenter in the new series at QPH called “stay ALERT!” which focuses on radical queer organizing and the intersections of oppressions. stay ALERT stands for Activism, Leadership, and Education for a Radical Takeover. Look for a new stay ALERT event each month. Are you staying            ALERT? General News “Policing in Queer & Trans Communities” at Queens Pride House I’ve been writing this blog since 2006, and for a while it seemed that my readership was growing steadily.  I joined Twitter in 2009, and Tumblr in 2013, and later that year I made a separate Twitter account for personal and political tweets.  I saw people retweeting and reblogging my work.  But at a certain point the number of retweets, reblogs, mentions and comments that my posts got abruptly dropped.  Since then most of the responses I get are from regular readers or Facebook friends. This is not entirely a bad thing.  I know that a lot of what I write is controversial, and some transitioners even find it offensive.  I’ve had a couple of unpleasant experiences, on Reddit and on Facebook, with people sharing my work with a hostile audience, and it is not necessarily valuable.  I don’t really want to reach people who have closed their minds to my ideas, whose only response will be unthinking hate, and who will use the opportunity to find ways to dismiss my arguments. The main reason I write is simply because I have ideas, thoughts, words in me that want to get out.  I read things that other people write, and if I don’t write down my own thoughts in response, I tend to get more confused about the issues and forget my earlier thoughts. But I also write for others, for trans people who are deciding whether to transition, for trans people who have decided not to transition and can hopefully benefit from my experience, and from various kinds of allies.  I want to continue to reach them. What’s frustrating is that it could be due to people simply not appreciating my writing anymore.  I find myself wondering whether I’ve gotten so out of touch with other trans people that nobody agrees with me at all.  Or possibly worse, that what I say is complete gibberish to them. I’ve occasionally read things about a Twitter blacklist, a plugin that will load a centrally maintained list of Bad People and filter their tweets out. Now, I believe in blocking people; there are too many trolls out there.  But blocking should always be done on a case by case basis.  Group blacklists are a huge abuse of power. It crossed my mind that I might have been put on some blacklist.  This is a good place to point out that I have not done any of the things that are normally invoked to justify keeping a blacklist.  I have never harassed or stalked anyone.  I have never threatened anyone with discrimination, much less violence.  I haven’t called anyone slurs based on race, gender, religion, sexuality or anything else.  The worst things I’ve said to anybody are probably “fuck you” and “you’re an asshole” in the midst of heated arguments.  If that’s what it takes to be on that blacklist I’d expect half the world to be on there. I got some confirmation for my suspicions last year, when the LaLa Zannell, a staffer at the Antiviolence Project retweeted the claim that “Stonewall was started by trans women.”  The claim bothers me because it is invariably used to foreground transition track trans women, excluding the trans women at Stonewall who chose not to transition.  The word “trans women” didn’t exist then; they all called themselves queens or transvestites, regardless of their transition status. I tried to engage with the people repeating that claim on Twitter, and at first I was engaged, if with suspicious contempt. But then all of a sudden LaLa Zanell retweeted a tweet from an anonymous account, responding to another, private anonymous account, claiming that I had “priors,” so that it was okay to block me. Again, note that I did not attack or threaten anyone or any group.  Zannell and friends were challenging a historical account of Stonewall, and offering an alternative.  I was doing exactly the same thing. That was clear evidence of my name on some blacklist that could be used by people to decide whether to block me.  I suspected I was also on an informal blacklist, but I had no evidence until a few months ago I came across a tweet shared by a fellow linguist and trans woman who follows me on Twitter.  The author of this post, also a trans woman, talked about using these group blacklists in the past and renouncing the practice:  These lists are incredibly incredibly powerful, and for marginalized people like trans women sometimes the only community they have is here. — Mask of Dionysus (@ZoeyAWolfe) May 4, 2016  I saw this tweet from my professional Twitter feed, where I mostly talk about linguistics and try to keep political tweets to a minimum.  I logged in to my personal account and discovered that I was indeed blocked by the author of that blog post.  I tweeted this information to her from my professional account, and she happily removed the block. Neither of us remembered having any interaction with the other, so it is clear that I am indeed on an automatic blacklist. What is most disturbing about these blacklists is that there is no due process, no opportunity for redress, and not even any notification to people who are placed on one.  Even the people who use these blacklists are never told anything about me.  One day I am visible to them, the next I am gone. Even the informal blacklist that Zannell and friends used was a complete mystery to me.  The tweet she retweeted came from an anonymous account that blocked me.  The evidence of “priors” it referred to was from another anonymous account whose tweets were private.  There was no way for me to see the evidence against me, and no opportunity to respond or refute it. It is perfectly fine for individuals to block anyone they don’t want to interact with.  It is also appropriate for Twitter or even organized groups to block or ban repeat offenders, with due process, transparency and accountability. It is much worse to have hidden blacklists maintained by anonymous administrators, with no procedures for recourse or accountability.  And it is even worse to have such hidden blacklists applied automatically, with the user being unaware of the people they have blocked. It is a recipe for disappearing people that a totalitarian dictator would be proud of. What I find most disturbing is that LaLa Zanell worked for the Antiviolence Project at the time.  Zannell may have been junior staff member at the time, but when I alerted the organization about this activity there was no response.   This lack of interest, and the fact that Zannell has been promoted twice since then leads me to wonder whether AVP as an organization would ever adopt a blacklist. Would there come a time when I could be beaten up, and try to contact AVP to report it, only to be ignored?  I hope not.  I’d like to get some reassurance from them. I wrote most of this post a few weeks ago, but I’ve been avoiding finishing it until tonight, because it was painful just re-reading the nasty tweets from Zannell and her anonymous friends, and even more painful being reminded that there are thousands of people out there who won’t even get a chance to read a little of what I write, so they can decided for themselves whether to read more or not. What moved me to finish the post and click “Publish” was the recent controversy over fake news in the US election.  I’ve had a lot of thoughts about the election and about the fake news, but I haven’t posted anything because I haven’t had any answers.  Tonight another fellow linguist and data scientist posted a dataset of “fake news” gathered from websites flagged by Daniel Sieradski’s “BS Detector” software, which relies on a list of domains that “was somewhat indiscriminately compiled from various sources around the web.” At this point I don’t think I need to spell out for you why I think Sieradski’s methods are a bad idea.  Yes, I understand why group blacklists are tempting.  But they don’t work, and they are open to serious abuse.  I’ve spent my life supporting independent media organizations, going back to when I used data science to fight Rush Limbaugh’s misinformation in 1995.  I don’t want to see small media providers snuffed out because “this blacklist is better than nothing.”  It’s not.  I’m serious. Articles Bad stats Blog news Categorization Media Personal news Blacklisted! It’s a play about bathrooms and drag queens … being performed in my neighborhood!   I hope I get a chance to see it. THALIA SPANISH THEATRE presents the AMERICAN PREMIERE BILINGUAL PRODUCTION OF THE LADIES ROOM/ BAÑO DE DAMAS By one of Venezuela’s most prestigious playwrights RODOLFO SANTANA English translation by CHARLES PHILIP THOMAS Directed by PEDRO DE LLANO starring ANGELICA AYALA, ALMA D’CRUZ, LAURA PATALANO, LAURA GOMEZ, JENNIFFER DIAZ, ANGELICA GUVERNEZ,ELKA RODRIGUEZ, ANGELA PEREZ, MARTHA OSORIO, LORENA JORGE, and FRANCISCO FUERTES as “The Seagull” Ever wonder, “What do they DO in there that takes so long?” Here’s your chance to find out! Carmen is the attendant of a ladies room at an upscale dance club, where the elite of the social, artistic, and political scenes meet to get seen, hustled, seduced, and smashed. She confronts a crisis in her marriage as a parade of lovely ladies streams in and out, sharing makeup, advice, secrets and more. Meanwhile, the club’s waiter, a drag queen named “The Seagull”, plans to make the most of a once-in-a-lifetime chance to perform for his idol, the inspiration for his act, when she pops in to freshen up. SIX WEEKS ONLY! FROM MAY 18 TO JUNE 24, 2007 alternating performances in English and Spanish Performances IN ENGLISH: Fridays at 8 PM and Saturdays at 3 PM Performances IN SPANISH: Saturdays at 8 PM, Sundays at 4 PM TICKETS: $25 STUDENTS & SENIORS: $22 Special group rates INFORMATION & TICKETS (718) 729-3880 At THALIA SPANISH THEATRE, 41-17 Greenpoint Avenue (Queens) Subway # 7 Local to 40th St. Station. Buses Q60, Q32 to Queens Blvd & 41st St. Bathrooms General News THE LADIES ROOM/ BAÑO DE DAMAS at Thalia This recent article from Virginia Postrel helped me put my finger on what bothered me about Christina Aguilera’s song “Beautiful.”  Or rather, the biggest thing that bothered me; Aguilera’s show-offy vocal stylings grated on me from the beginning, but it was really the lyrics that annoyed me.  I just found out, from the Wikipedia article, that the music and lyrics were written by 1 of the former 4 Non Blondes, Linda Perry. I’ve only just watched the video that I linked, since I figured I should watch something before I show it to you.  Up to now, my exposure to the song has been involuntary; it’s been forced into my brain by our local Clear Channel pod.  Aguilera does get props for including a drag queen in her video, but that idea isn’t new; in the liner notes for a Go-Go’s compilation I have, one of the members writes about how their (much more insightful) song “Beautiful” was inspired by a scene from a John Waters movie featuring Divine. So what really rubs me the wrong way about this song is the assertion that “I/We/You are beautiful, in every single way.”  In other words, everyone is beautiful.  I’d kinda agree that everyone has something beautiful about them, but is everyone beautiful in every single way?  Well, no.  Adjectives serve to distinguish people, and when there is no distinction, the adjective becomes meaningless.  If everyone were really beautiful in every single way, then no one would be beautiful, and beauty would cease to exist.  But beauty clearly does exist in people’s minds, and very few people really think that everyone is beautiful in every single way. The video makes Aguilera’s intentions clear: she’s fighting against low self-esteem.  I agree with her: low self-esteem can be painful and crippling, and it’s good to help people get out of it.  But Perry and Aguilera are themselves stuck in the low self-esteem trap, and can’t even free themselves let alone anyone else.  Perry’s own words show this: “Words can’t bring me down, So don’t you bring me down today.”  Postrel’s critique of the Dove Soap “Campaign for Real Beauty” points out the problem: “Only two percent of women describe themselves as beautiful” trumpets the headline of Dove’s press release. Contrary to what the company wants readers to believe, however, that statistic doesn’t necessarily represent a crisis of confidence; it may simply reflect the power of the word beautiful. Dove’s surveys don’t ask women if they think they’re unattractive or ugly, so it’s hard to differentiate between knowing you have flaws, believing you’re acceptably but unimpressively plain, and feeling worthlessly hideous. The cause of self-esteem problems, as implied by Perry, is that people don’t think they’re beautiful.  She aims to change that by gate-crashing the “beautiful” category and ushering everyone else in by fiat, but this is doomed to failure.  The true cause of self-esteem problems is the reliance on shallow categories like “beautiful,” and if Perry succeeds in redefining “beauty,” then the discrimination and self-esteem crises will simply move to another category, and the words will continue to bring me/us/you down. It’s occurred to me that at the age of 37, Perry could well have been aware of the internal contradictions in her lyrics and their detachment from reality, but left them that way because they expressed how she felt inside.  But any self-awareness she may have had, she doesn’t seem to have passed on to Aguilera or the people who produced the video, or any of the fans.  Aguilera may be calculating in her performance (despite the assertion in the Wikipedia article that it was recorded in one take), but seems to earnestly believe the content of the lyrics on the most superficial level. So what’s the answer to the problem of self-esteem?  Postrel continues, “Real confidence requires self-knowledge, which includes recognizing one’s shortcomings as well as one’s strengths.” I am beautiful, sometimes, in certain ways.  I’m also overweight, pompous and easily distracted.  Words can bring me down.  Please try not to bring me down today. Or you can have Chumbawamba’s take on self-esteem: I get knocked down! But I get up again; you’re never gonna keep me down. Articles Categorization Glamour Media Verbal Hygiene Don’t you bring me down today Not too far away from me there’s a small homeless shelter for transgender and GLB youth ages 17-24.  The church that housed the shelter had to close, and now they’re in a rented two-bedroom apartment.  A recent New York Times article gives details.  Here’s the shelter’s website and their Myspace page – which includes contact information if you want to volunteer and a Paypal link if you want to donate money. General News Support Carmen’s Place This is the third in a series of posts about gender categories.  In the first post I discussed the categorization theories of Eleanor Rosch and George Lakoff.  In the second I took on the question of whether transgender people are men, women, some combination, or neither men or women, and discarded the idea that transgender people form some kind of “third gender.”  In this post I will examine the idea that all transgender people are either men or women, and that there is no overlap. There are two ways separating transgender people into men and women.  One is to assert that each of us is either a man or a woman forever, and that this is determined before birth and unchangeable.  The other is that our gender is dependent on a specific feature, and if that feature changes then our gender changes.  I dislike the first approach intensely, and I find the second approach problematic. In the first of these posts I discussed how there are two categories (man and woman), and it’s natural that people would prefer to be able to sort every person in the world into one of those two.  The categories are so complex, it’s also understandable that people would prefer to have a single criterion for sorting.  Sadly, the natural world eludes any attempt to pin down a single criterion.  The most popular criterion is genitals, followed by chromosomes, since they’re the areas with the least overlap, but there are plenty of intersex cases that defy categorization on both criteria.  There is also the difficulty that chromosomes are uncategorizable without special equipment, and genitals are also commonly kept hidden.  Secondary sex characteristics like breasts and hip width are subject to a lot of overlap, and breasts can be developed with hormones. Popular within the transgender movement is a notion of gender identity, an innate, immutable characteristic that is claimed to determine someone’s “true” gender (and thus, often, their destiny); it is often claimed to be an indication of someone’s “brain sex.”  It is argued that all transgender people (or sometimes all “true transgender” people) have a mismatch between the sex assigned to them at birth and their gender identity.  The problem with this is that there is no direct way to measure gender identity (or brain sex) at all; it is entirely based on individual claims.  Thus, even though it is claimed to be immutable and eternal (justifying claims of destiny), it can change if the individual changes his or her mind.  This can result in someone being classified as “just a cross-dresser,” and therefore innately a man, one week and a transsexual, and therefore innately a woman, the next week. Even if there exists some category of “brain sex,” and it some day becomes possible to measure this directly rather than relying on subjective reports of gender identity, it seems highly unlikely that there is an exact match between on the one hand everyone who has a mismatch between their assigned gender and their brain sex, and on the other hand everyone who has changed genders or plans to change genders (or who “should” change genders, or who has a reasonable expectation of being satisfied with a gender transition).  There will still be people born male who “successfully” transition to female without a “female brain” and people born female who lead contented lives as women despite having “male brains.”  If this “brain sex” exists, it is of limited value in classifying people as male or female. The idea that category membership depends on a mutable characteristic is also difficult to work with.   Obviously governments like it, because they can choose an easily verifiable characteristic and one that’s hard to change and even harder to change back, like genital appearance.  But many transgender people have pointed out that their genitals have relatively little to do with their interactions with other people and that 99% of the time it’s just as easy (or just as difficult) to deal with people and be accepted in a given gender role with mismatched genitals. These hard-and-fast criteria have a very hard time dealing with issues of passing. If someone assigned male at birth passes for female, people who don’t know of her birth gender will treat her as a woman, and in most ways it is impractical for people who do know her birth gender to treat her as a man.  Attempts to regulate gender privileges based on a single criterion wind up being attempts to outlaw passing. Since I’ve wound up expressing dissatisfaction with the “third gender” approach and the “either/or” approach, you can probably guess that I prefer an approach where people are seen as being a mixture of genders.  In a later post I will explain how this would work, and why it would be preferable to the two other possibilities. Articles Categorization Either/Or Who doesn’t love some Eddie Izzard news?  Just saw his name headlining an ad for his new show The Riches and wondered what it was all about. It seems like the show has been an occasion for lots of interviews.  The Daily Telegraph has an interesting discussion with him about balancing cross-dressing with work, and although he works as an actor, I think what he says is true to some degree for any non-transitioning transgender person regardless of their line of work. The Discovery Channel has an article that combines some of my favorite things: it’s a summary of a forthcoming article in Language and Communication by SUNY-Binghamton professor and University of Chicago graduate Douglas Glick where he analyzes the techniques used by standup performers, focusing on two Izzard routines.  At the end of the Discovery News article, added almost as an afterthought, is a quote from Glick’s colleague Stephen Straight explaining why Don Imus really did use (as opposed to mention) both a racist insult and a sexist one against the Rutgers basketball team, and the fact that he was joking is not an adequate defense. I’m a proud Binghamton alum, the last linguistics major declared before the Cuomo budget cuts put the major on hiatus for several years, and Steve Straight was my advisor.  I remember, at Steve’s suggestion, doing a paper on frame semantics and reading Victor Raskin’s frame-semantic analysis of humor.  I don’t know if Glick used Raskin’s work; I’ll have to wait until the article comes out.  After Binghamton I got my M. A. at Chicago, but I don’t remember Glick; he must have been in the Anthropology department.  Binghamton and Steve Straight, the U of C, linguistics, humor analysis and Eddie Izzard, all in Discovery News. General News Media Eddie Izzard update I may have said this somewhere before, but I don’t think I’ve put it in exactly these words.  This is not an April Fool’s column; April Fool’s Day has always made me uncomfortable.  This is really what I think. Your life is your own, and it’s your choice to do with as you choose – within the constraints that we all operate under. This seems obvious, but you wouldn’t necessarily know it by reading some of the things transgender people write.  There’s a lot of agonizing about “Could I really be transsexual?” as if the answer will determine your destiny.  Well, okay, maybe you’re one or the other, but don’t let that tell you how to run your life.  In the past there have been transsexuals who’ve lived their lives without transitioning, and cross-dressers who’ve transitioned.  Some have been happy, some unhappy, and what box they put themselves in seems to have had little to do with their satisfaction in the end. Forget about your prenatal hormones, the length of your fingers, the size of your stria terminalis, and whether your mother first caught you in her closet at the age of three, thirteen or forty-three.  Think about your life: your likes, your dislikes, your friends, your work and your hobbies.  Think about what your life in your current gender is, what your experience of the other gender is, what you know about other people’s experiences in that gender, and what you could reasonably expect your experience to be.  If you don’t have this information, then how can you expect to make a good decision? If you’re currently living as a man, imagine the best possible life you could have as a woman.  Okay, now after you’ve cleaned up, think of all the things you’d give up in your male life.  Then think about the difficulties that transition brings, your own particular circumstances, and the differences they will make between your life and that best possible woman’s life.  Think of all the things that could go wrong. Then think of all the things that could go wrong in your male life, and the things that you could do to make your life as a man better.  Imagine the energy, time and money that you’d spend on transition, and then imagine investing all that energy, time and money in your male life. Imagine a “middle path,” spending part of your time living in one gender and part in another, but keep in mind that those middle paths are unstable, and very few people are successful in finding a middle way.  Many of them eventually decide to transition, and others decide to scale back their activities in their non-birth gender. Compare all those scenarios, and any others you can think of.  If you don’t know enough to make an adequate comparision, then get the information you need.  If you think you have enough information, then go ahead and make your decision.  But make it on the basis of what’s right for you – what will make you happy, and what will make your loved ones happy. Remember that this is your decision.  A website, book, doctor, therapist, support group member, friend or loved one can help advise you, but ultimately it is you who will live with it.  This is a decision about how you will live the rest of your life, not about “what you are.”  Don’t let definitions run your life. Articles It’s your life and your choice I saw her as soon as I got in the door.  It had been a few years, but she looked pretty much the same as I remembered her, maybe a little thinner.  I looked for signs of what my mother had told me, but saw nothing.  She was the same old Elizabeth.  Her mother smiled at us, and introduced us to their other dinner guests. Her name isn’t really Elizabeth, but I have to change it.  Even so, people might figure out who I’m talking about.  That’s what happens when you grow up in a small town.  But this is worth telling, I think, and it doesn’t reflect too badly on her.  So she’s Elizabeth.  I’ve known some girls whose real names were Elizabeth, but this isn’t about any of them.  This is about a girl whose name isn’t really Elizabeth. I remembered how worldly she and her older sister seemed when I met them.  They talked about all kinds of things that I didn’t really know about, like the Oranges.  Who knew there were towns called the Oranges?  Their mother and my mother were friends, and we saw them every so often. I remembered the summer after fifth grade, when my mom kept repeating, “Elizabeth had her outfit for the first day of class already picked out … on the last day of class!”  At the time I didn’t expect to see that outfit on that day.  I was still expecting to go back to my old school and see the same old kids that I had failed to get along with for the past five and a half years.  But my mom suggested a change.  Maybe I should walk the other way to the other bus stop, and go to the other school with the hippie kids.  Maybe I’d get along better with them than with the country kids.  She talked to the principal, and it was arranged.  And there I was, on the first day of school, looking at Elizabeth in her carefully selected outfit. Elizabeth was quite something for an eleven year old.  So were a few other girls in the class.  Everyone remarked on how wild they were, how daring, how … grown up.  My mom didn’t like it.  She thought their clothes were too sexual, too provocative.  She said they wore things that would have been too sexual on a seventeen-year-old.  And she was one to know: by her accounts she dressed provocatively when she was seventeen. I have no memory of Elizabeth’s outfit that day.  By my memory she was one of four girls in the class who attracted my attention that year.  Sometimes they wore miniskirts, sometimes hot pants.  Sometimes hot pants with stripes, or tights with stripes under miniskirts.  They were dramatic; they sang songs from the musical Grease 2 and called themselves the Pink Ladies; Helga was particularly fond of the song “Reproduction,” and later she was a “Madonna wannabe.” Years later I had a class with Penny Eckert and she talked about adolescent social development, and mentioned the kids who were still playing on the monkey bars when the other kids were starting to take on gender roles and play courtship games.  I was one of those kids on the monkey bars.  The monkey bars in that schoolyard were pretty good. I was never particularly attracted to Elizabeth that year.  She wasn’t unattractive, but I just wasn’t sexual yet.  I don’t remember feeling real, physical sexual attraction for  anyone until at least a year later.  Instead I feared her.  I was intimidated by her.  But I did admire her, and wish that I could be more like her and Helga and their friends.  They were brash and confident and sassy.  They got lots of attention, and people wanted to hang out with them.  I was brash and confident too, but I was geeky instead of sassy, and people complained about me and avoided me.  It was hard to find friends to play with on the monkey bars. These were some of the memories that went through my head ten years later, as I sat in Elizabeth’s house eating dinner with her family and guests, and talking about how I’d soon be leaving for a year of college in Paris.  By then I was definitely sexual, and I thought Elizabeth was pretty attractive.  So was one of her guests, a Tunisian woman a few years older than us.  And then, Elizabeth invited me upstairs to her room to look at some photos. I wasn’t expecting that.  Elizabeth had never before shown any interest in doing anything alone with me.  We’d always been acquaintances, polite to each other, but never really … interested in each other.  Or at least, she’d never shown any interest in me before. I knew she could show interest in guys.  Some time in eleventh grade I was talking with my friend Brent, and he said, “Do you know Elizabeth?  Well she’s grown up since you were in sixth grade with her, and she’s gorgeous!  I was sitting on a bed with her one time, and she rolled right on top of me!  And I was just eleven at the time!” So there we were, me and Elizabeth, sitting on the floor of her bedroom, looking at photos.  I have no idea what was in the photos, I just remember Elizabeth sitting next to me.  I didn’t want to think about anything else, but my mind went back to sixth grade, when Elizabeth and I were in a classroom with a group of other kids, practicing for a class play. I don’t know what it was that I said.  I was trying to be brash and clever, but I could tell that Elizabeth was getting annoyed.  I kept on saying it, because I didn’t think she had any right to be annoyed, because clearly (to my ten-year-old brain) what I was saying was the height of wit and sophistication.  And then, with a cry of exasperation she leaned back, gracefully lifted one of her lean legs and rubbed her foot in my face. I can still see in my mind the sole of her ballet slipper coming right towards me.  Of course there was no physical pain and the dirt was minimal, but the humiliation was total.  I remember crying and going to the principal’s office.  I have no idea if Elizabeth was punished and if so, what the punishment was.  If she ever apologized, I don’t think it was sincere.  I’m sure the incident was talked about all over the sixth grade, but I don’t remember any conversations about it with other kids.  I can’t really say it ruined my status, because I had already pretty much done that on my own. So there I was, sitting next to Elizabeth and wondering what to do if she made a move on me like she did with Brent.  Here’s an attractive woman who ten years ago smushed her ballet slipper into my face.  Should I kiss her as though that had never happened?  Should I use the opportunity for revenge and smush my own foot in her face?  Or was I deluding myself that she was even attracted to me? I never had to make that decision.  My sister poked her head in the room and then sat down with us.  I don’t think she had any clue that I was half-hoping to kiss Elizabeth; I think she was bored and wanted to see if we were doing anything more interesting than the folks downstairs.  After a while, when she showed no signs of leaving, we all went downstairs.  We talked with the guests for a while, and while we were talking, I noticed that Elizabeth kind of leaned against me, and then somehow I had my arm around her waist.  I don’t know how it happened, but there we were, arm in arm.  And the way she leaned against me made me think that she had probably wanted to kiss me upstairs. That made me wonder what she would have thought if she knew that within six months after the shoe-rubbing incident, I snuck into my sister’s bedroom and put on one of her dresses.  I looked at myself in the mirror and I no longer saw the annoying geeky guy that nobody wanted to hang out with.  I saw a brash, sassy, attractive girl who, I thought, would have fit right in with Elizabeth and her friends.  And I kept going back, week after week, year after year.  I thought I was finished with that when I went to college, but shortly before I had dinner with Elizabeth and her parents, I had spent two weeks housesitting for a woman in town and wearing her clothes every night. If Elizabeth knew that, would she still have wanted have my arm around her?  Would she still have wanted to show me her photos?  If she knew that I dressed up, would she have liked my style and wanted to go shopping with me?  Could I have been a girl like her, and had the attention of a girl like her, at the same time?  As I was thinking that, Al Sharpton showed up. He wasn’t Al Sharpton, the civil rights leader.  His name wasn’t really Al Sharpton, but it might as well have been.  He was white, and he had been in our sixth grade class.   He and I were friendly for a while, until an unpleasant birthday party that snowballed into a really nasty pre-adolescent feud which left me with exactly two friends for a time.  We had patched things up years ago, and were cordial to each other.  My sister says he still asks about me sometimes. I don’t think that Al had been invited to this dinner party, but there he was.  He seemed perturbed that Elizabeth and I were arm in arm, and for a while we wound up both with our arms around Elizabeth.  And then it was time to go home.  We said our goodbyes, and I don’t think I’ve seen Elizabeth since. On the way home I remembered way back to fourth grade, when our class had sat down and watched a film about a terrible degenerative disease.  There were animated diagrams of nerve linings being eaten away, but I think the film was pretty sketchy on the actual symptoms of the disease.  Then we were asked to participate in a fund drive where we read books, and signed up sponsors to donate money for each book we read.  I think my sponsors must have known what they were in for, but I did a lot of reading, and I was still surprised that it all counted towards the total. I remembered when my mom told me that Elizabeth had the disease, and still not knowing what that meant.  She seemed normal at the party, maybe a little thin, that was all.  I knew I had a few weeks until I left for Paris, and I thought about calling Elizabeth to see if maybe I could get some time alone with her after all.  But then I thought about Al Sharpton and the ballet slipper, and I decided against it. Sometimes my mother mentions Elizabeth’s family, and I ask about her.  Usually it’s hard to get much more out of my mom than a sad, “Oh, she’s not doing very well,” or “Ugh! It’s a horrible disease.”  The main thing I know that she’s in a wheelchair. I hope the rest of her life is as good as it can be. Articles Being a Pink Lady In my recent post about gender categories, I focused on describing the way people tend to view gender categories, and why.  In my last post I discussed the empirical basis for Eleanor Rosch’s theories of categorization.  In this post I’m going to be prescriptive.  Unlike cranky prescriptivists, I’m going to justify my positions in terms of my personal agenda and priorities.  You will probably agree with my prescriptions to the extent that you share my priorities. One of my priorities is honesty: honesty with yourself and honesty with others.  Other priorities are freedom, fairness, safety, respect and caring.  I also like consistency, but not foolish consistency.  I dislike and distrust innatism (also called nativism).  A good set of gender categories will balance these priorities, giving people the freedom to live their lives as they wish, while being fair and honest to others.  It will be reasonably consistent and avoid innatist assumptions. There are really three possibilities for the gender assignment of “gender-non-conforming” people, which would include not just transgender people, but also intersex people and other people who are hard to put into one category or another.  A given person is either in one gender (a man or a woman), both, or neither.  I’ll take up these possibilities in order of how I feel about them. In this post I’ll start with the possibility I like the least: “neither.”  One thing that drives me up the wall is the often-repeated platitude that gender-non-conforming people form a “third gender.”  Are you seriously telling me that a male-to-female transvestite, a studiously androgynous genderqueer and a butch lesbian are all part of the same gender?  If that’s the case, then it’s a completely meaningless category, because there is not only no common principle (to fit the classical category model), but no prototype either.  All that we have in common is the difficulty that other people have in categorizing us, and some of the experiences that result from that, but that’s not enough for a gender.  The “third gender” idea is a nicer version of the bigot’s categorization system that puts us all in a category of “freaks.” Another system within this possibility is the idea of a plethora of genders, that could theoretically be expanded to infinity, so that left-handed FTM non-ops on hormones with top surgery and goatees form their own gender, separate from the left-handed FTM non-ops on hormones with top surgery and sideburns.  (Where to put the ones with sideburns and goatees is left as an exercise for the reader.)  These systems all ignore the fact that most people, including most transgender and intersex people, really want to be one gender or the other, at least at a given time.  It is not very respectful or caring to deny us this without a good reason. In my previous article I made it clear that categories exist within a particular culture, and my focus is American culture in the early twenty-first century.  However, there are categories in other cultures that are claimed by some to be a “third gender” (more information in this Wikipedia article).  The fa’afafine of Samoa and the muxe of Oaxaca are examples.  Usually they are born male and take on female roles, but some, like the sworn virgins of the Balkans, are assigned female at birth and take on male roles. It might be possible to advocate the adoption of gender categories like these in America, but honestly in reading about them I find them neither fair nor free, respectful, safe or caring.  Usually the male-born “third gender” individuals are accepted as a kind of second-class female, allowed to participate in some female activities but excluded from others.  They are also expected to only be sexually involved with men.  Their status and safety vary from culture to culture, but they are almost always lower-status and more vulnerable than men or women.  Personally, life as an Indian hijra or a Brazilian travesti sounds to me horrible and degrading, and I would much rather be either a man or a woman in those societies than their “third gender.” I remember once seeing a person named Toby on some television talk show who carefully balanced gender cues and adamantly resisted any attempt to be categorized as male or female.  If an individual really wants to be a gender other than man or woman, or no gender at all, I’ll do my best to respect that.  I’m mostly objecting to attempts to dump all transgender people in a catch-all “third gender” category. Articles Categorization The Sixteenth Gender In my previous post, I quoted some work by George Lakoff about the category mother, and extrapolated it to the case of gender categories.  I have a scientific caveat to make.  Lakoff was trained by Noam Chomsky, and although he broke publicly with Chomsky in the 1970s, he still uses Chomsky’s methods of introspection and grammaticality judgments.  When Chomsky wants to prove a grammatical point, he invents sentences in English and classifies them as “grammatical” or “ungrammatical,” and builds his arguments on those judgments. When Chomsky’s students study languages that they’re not native speakers of, they invent sentences in those languages, find a native speaker and ask that person for grammaticality judgments.  This method assumes that grammaticality judgments (a) are valid and unbiased, and (b) hold for every other speaker of the language, assumptions that are not justified. Lakoff does something similar with his list of “but tests” that are judged as “normal” or “strange,” and I repeated this in my discussion.  These informal judgments are useful for speculation, but they have the same problems as Chomsky’s grammaticality judgments.  However, the notions of radial categories and prototype effects are based on more than this.  Eleanor Rosch herself did reproducible psycholinguistic laboratory tests, and most of the Lakoff work that I’ve described can be accounted for with tests like these. The laboratory version of the “but tests” are reaction-time tests.   In her 1973 paper “On the internal structure of perceptual and semantic categories,” Rosch presented subjects with a number of sentences and asked them to press different keys for “true” or “false.”  She measured the time it took the subjects to hit a key after the sentence appeared.  There was a significant difference between sentences like “A robin is a bird,” where robins are central members of the category bird, and sentences like “An ostrich is a bird,” where ostriches are peripheral members of the category.  The average adult reaction time for central members was 1012 milliseconds, while the time for peripheral members was 1061 milliseconds. Lakoff’s “but tests” examine whether a particular subcategory is central to the category; they can also test whether a particular criterion marks a member of the category as central.  It seems like Lakoff’s subjective notion of “strangeness” is exactly what a reaction test is designed to measure; if it is possible to present these “but sentences” in an experiment and ask subjects reasonable questions about them, their reaction time could be a reproducible measure of “strangeness.” Unfortunately, as far as I know nobody has done this kind of measurement, so the case for radial structure of gender categories rests on introspection. Articles Categorization The Scientific Basis of Categorization Studies A while ago on the My Husband Betty message boards I posted an analysis of the category “woman” in contemporary American culture, and where transgender people fit into it.  A couple of months ago there was another discussion about this issue, and since then I’ve wanted to rework my original post and make it available here.  In my view, a lot of discrimination against transgender people has its origins in overly rigid views of gender.  I have no illusion that posting my analysis here will suddenly enlighten bigots around the world, but I hope it will be helpful to some people.  On the other hand, it’s not quite as helpful to the transgender movement as some might like. It’s important to note here that this is a descriptive analysis.  I think it’s a waste of time to present the way you want things to be before you figure out how they are.   I am trying to describe the way that people understand gender, and after that I will talk about how it could be different.  Please don’t take my description of an attitude or belief as an endorsement of it. My analysis is based on the categorization theories of Eleanor Rosch, as presented in George Lakoff’s excellent book Women, Fire and Dangerous Things.  In Chapter 4, Lakoff shows how it is more useful to describe the category of mother with a “cluster model” than with the classical categorization model that uses necessary and sufficient conditions.  For example, Dr. Johnson defined a mother as a woman that has borne a child; Lakoff calls this the “birth model” of motherhood.  But Lakoff identifies four other models that are in wide use: a genetic model, a nurturance model, a marital model and a genealogical model.  He invents a series of more or less plausible sentences with the phrase “real mother” in them, each one affirming one of the five models and rejecting the others. Critically, mother includes mutually exclusive subcategories like surrogate mother and foster mother.  Some people may try to be fundamentalist and dogmatic about the birth criterion, but most agree that both of these kinds of mothers are still mothers in the end.   In chapter 5, Lakoff observes that mother is not just a cluster category, but a “radial category” based around the sterotype of a housewife who nurtures the children that she has genetically conceived with her husband and then given birth to.  Other kinds of mothers, such as working mothers are defined in contrast to the stereotype.  Lakoff writes (page 80): Consider an unwed mother who gives up her child for adoption and then goes out and gets a job. She is still a mother, by virtue of the birth model, and she is working–but she is not a working mother! Similarly, it seems strange to think of egg donors as unwed mothers, because the category of unwed mother is based on the birth model.  To identify normal (I’d say normative) expectations, he gives a “but” test: Normal: She is a mother, but she isn’t a housewife. Strange: She is a mother, but she’s a housewife. Lakoff goes on to list other kinds of mothers: stepmothers, adoptive mothers, birth mothers, foster mothers, biological mothers, surrogate mothers, unwed mothers and genetic mothers.  Mother is a radial category because people judge these kinds of mothers as being good examples of motherhood based on their distance from the prototype of the housewife. If you’re at all familiar with the endless transgender terminology wars, you’re probably already thinking of ways that this could be applied to gender.  Here’s my take on it. Like mother, woman in contemporary America is also a radial category, based on a stereotype of a human being with  XX chromosomes, a female reproductive system and secondary sex characteristics.  The stereotypical woman is shorter and less muscular than average, with a higher-pitched voice.  She was born and raised a girl and went through a number of female rites of passage.   She is submissive and indirect, in sex as in the rest of her life, and she puts family before career.  She is attracted to men, and plans to marry one if she hasn’t already.  She wears skirts, high heels, jewelry, make-up and long hair and manicured nails.  And yes, the stereotypical woman is less intelligent than average. Anyone who’s been involved in a gender-based flamewar or two can probably remember a number of sentences with “real woman” in them, and can point to non-prototypical kinds of women: tall women, strong women, deep-voiced women, assertive women, women who top, career women, lesbians, unmarried women, women who don’t wear skirts/high heels/etc.  Here are a few “but test” examples: Normal: She’s a woman, but she’s a tall woman. Strange: She’s a woman, but she’s a short woman. Normal: She’s a woman, but she’s assertive. Strange: She’s a woman, but she’s submissive. Normal: She’s a woman, but she’s a lesbian. Strange: She’s a woman, but she’s heterosexual. Normal: She’s a woman, but she doesn’t wear make-up. Strange: She’s a woman, but she wears make-up. The category of man is similar, and I’ll just skip to the “but test” here: Normal: He’s a man, but he’s got a high-pitched voice. Strange: He’s a man, but he’s got a deep voice. Normal: He’s a man, but he takes care of the kids all day. Strange: He’s a man, but he works all day. Normal: He’s a man, but he’s not very good at sports. Strange: He’s a man, but he’s very good at sports. Normal: He’s a man, but he has long hair. Strange: He’s a man, but he has short hair. Man, these stereotypes suck, don’t they?   Fortunately, a lot of people out there realize that there’s a wide range of gender traits and celebrate this diversity. So the categories of man and woman are radial and prototype-based, but are they cluster categories?  Can they contain members with non-overlapping traits?  There is certainly room in some people’s gender categorization systems.  I know plenty of people who would accept both a butch lesbian and a femme non-body-modifying transwoman as members of the category woman, but I don’t know how typical they are. My feeling (and again I’m being descriptive here) is that the fundamentalist interpretations of gender categories are stronger than with mother.  A lot of people insist that genitals are the essential criterion, and are either unaware of the wide range of intersex conditions that complicate that picture.  Many people will either ignore exceptions or put them into a catch-all category of “freaks.” A lot of this seems to be due to the fact that there are two categories, woman and man, and they’re generally considered to be all-inclusive (everyone is a man or a woman) and mutually exclusive (no one is both a man and a woman).  To allow people with penises into the category of woman is to open up the possibility that someone could be both man and woman.  There is no corresponding category of non-mother that corresponds to mother in this way. It would probably be possible to devise a clever test to determine whether gender is a cluster category for a given person, and test a sample of Americans to figure out how widespread it is.  In the absence of this, we’ve just got speculation. That’s as far as I think I can go being purely descriptive.  Stay tuned for my prescriptive ideas about how gender should be. Articles Categorization Describing gender categories: clusters and radii, Rosch and Lakoff A few months ago I finished a long piece on what some people call the Slippery Slope. In that article I only really looked at the “feminine spectrum,” meaning people who were assigned male at birth and feel uncomfortable living as men, or who feel a desire to live as women.  I have the impression that there are processes happening on the masculine spectrum that are similar in some ways and very different in others. For your reference, here are my four recommendations again:  Don’t repress yourself. Invest in your masculine identity. Don’t invest too much in your feminine identity. Spread out your significant gender events.  My post has gotten some hostile reactions from transitioned trans women around the Internet, which might surprise you if you remember that it was specifically intended for people who had either decided not to transition or hadn’t made up their minds.  I was very explicit that it is not relevant to people who’ve decided to transition.  So why do these transitioned women care so much about it? While my analysis builds on ideas like the Tri-Ess “FIBER” principles, I believe that the last two elements are mostly new.  This means that any trans women who transitioned before I posted it in January was unaware of these recommendations.  While many of them always intended to transition, some decided not to at some point and then changed their minds, and others chose to experiment before making a decision. That means that even though these trans women aren’t covered by my article, they used to be.  And here we get into territory I covered a couple of years ago in my post on the Essential Conflict between transitioners and non-transitioners.  Transition is really, really hard, and transitioners often find themselves wondering whether they made the right choice.  This can be particularly upsetting if the person had previously made a commitment not to transition. To reassure themselves, many are drawn to beliefs that frame the issue as inevitable, and thus not really a choice. The thing is that in a lot of cases I would agree with their final decision to transition.  I’ve known many trans women who have spent months or years tormented by dysphoria, shame, inner conflict and outside harassment.  For them, transition seems as good a way to get out of it as any I know. What I won’t do is to say that transition was in their destinies since they were conceived, or since the hormones in the womb, or since puberty.  I won’t say that they couldn’t have done anything to prevent the misery that they felt before their final decision.  I won’t even say that that misery wasn’t the result of their choices. To say any of those things would mean accepting that there is some difference between us that can only be known by whether we transition and live without detransitioning for the rest of our lives.  Or else it would mean believing that my own transition is inevitable and that I’ve been lying to myself and my family for over twenty years.  I see no evidence of either of those ideas, and I’m not going to pretend I do to spare these people’s feelings. My observations suggest that if some of these trans women had managed their gender expression differently, their discomfort with their lives might not have gotten to be so unbearable that transition became the preferred choice.  That is not their fault, though, because nobody had figured out yet that investing too much in a feminine identity or having too many significant gender events could increase gender dysphoria.  On the contrary, most of the discourse around gender issues have portrayed dysphoria and transition as being contingent on factors that are innate and unchanging, and can not be avoided or exacerbated, only discovered. There is no criticism implied in any of this.  Without any idea that our actions could affect our dysphoria, why would we expect anyone to pay attention to frequency or identity development?  And why would we blame them for doing what the experts told them to do? Actions Articles The Slippery Slope The Slippery Slope and the Essential Conflict Helen Boyd and Betty Crow were on the Dr. Keith Ablow show last week.  YouTube links thanks to Kiss of Athena and Helen’s blog. I know they were both nervous about being “ambassadors of the trans community” on the show, and being able to get any kind of coherent message out while sitting in those chairs under the lights.  I think they did a great job, and I’m glad they got the word out that it’s possible to put your relationship before the trans and still be satisfied with your life.  I’m also impressed with Dr. Keith himself: he seems like a genuinely caring and open-minded guy. General News Helen and Betty on Dr. Keith Principle One of transgender-ness is “Nobody really knows what’s going on.”  I figured that out a long time ago, and it’s still true.  I’ve written an article about how hard it is to find out about transgender issues, and the difference between saying “there are people who are like this” (scientifically justifiable), and saying “everyone who’s this way is also that way” (not scientifically justifiable without representative sampling).  Maybe some day we’ll find out some Big New Discoveries, and then it won’t be as true.  But there are limits to how much we can know about people, so we’ll never completely understand what’s going on, any more than we understand love or ham radio. But.  It’s not that we don’t know anything.  We can make a lot of “some” statements, a lot of existential observations.  I’ve made some complicated ones in Principles Two through Seven, and even ventured to make a categorical statement (about people in general, not just transgender people) in Principle Eight.  Now I’m going to make a bunch of other “some” statements that I think are relatively uncontroversial, within the trans movement and outside it.  This is pretty much Trans 101 stuff, that I hope everyone can agree on, even anti-trans bigots (although they might choose different words). I’m not going to talk about feelings or beliefs here, or sexual activity, or relationships, because those areas are much trickier.  I’m also going to try and stay within a reference frame that’s accessible to outsiders, and avoid doing framing tricks like “I was never cross-dressing, because I was always really a woman inside.”  Most people can be unambiguously classified as male or female based on their physical sex characteristics. Some people cannot be unambiguously classified as male or female, and some people who were thought to be unambiguously one sex are later discovered to have characteristics of the other sex. People assign each other to genders, sometimes on the basis of sex characteristics, but often on the basis of social cues that signal membership in one gender or another. Some people cross-dress.  By this I mean that some people who are assigned to one gender sometimes intentionally present social cues signaling that they’re a member of another gender.  This usually involves clothing, but can also involve other forms of grooming, and modification of voice and body language. Some people pass, at least some of the time.  They were assigned to one gender, but sometimes other people categorize them as a member of a different gender.  This may be the intention of the person passing, or not.  It may be true for any length of time, from a split second to an entire lifetime. Some people cross-live.  They were assigned to one gender, but they intentionally present the cues of another gender, and are accepted as that gender, to a greater or lesser degree, all the time, for a long time. Observations 1 through 6 have been recorded throughout history. Some people modify their bodies, or arrange to have their bodies modified, to have less of the sex characteristics of one gender, and more of the characteristics of a different gender.  This has been going on for a long time, but in the past hundred years technology has advanced and now people can achieve a greater resemblance, often with more comfort and less danger, than before.  I think at this point that this is pretty much all that can be said about transgenderism without getting into the problematic areas of feelings, beliefs, sexuality and relationships.  If you think there’s something I’ve gotten wrong, or left something out, please feel free to email me or post a comment. You may notice that I’ve left out things like the stria terminalis; I’ll probably have to address that at some point, but right now I’ll just say it hasn’t been proven. I’m not completely sure what the point of this is, but I felt it would help me to have as “theory-neutral” a description of transgender phenomena as possible. Articles Categorization What We Do Know I felt like writing about singers, since singing is a good way to practice your voice.  I also was listening to some great women singers recently and figured I’d share.  Here are ten women that I like; I’ve picked five that I feel are fairly traditionally “femme,” and five that are less traditional.  Most of them have sent shivers up my spine at some point or another.  Here are the less traditional ones.  Kate Pierson (The B-52’s).  She’s got an amazingly powerful voice (“Roam”) and works well with Fred Schneider (“Good Stuff”) and Michael Stipe (“Me and Honey”).  She also loves wild clothes and has settled in my hometown.  See also Lady Miss Kier (Deee-Lite). Chrissie Hynde (The Pretenders).  I was a bit put off by her worldliness (“Middle of the Road”) when I was younger, but she has a good feel for the poignant (“My City was Gone”, “Back on the Chain Gang”).  See also Terri Nunn (Berlin). Natalie Merchant (10,000 Maniacs).  “Like the Weather” was the first song I heard her on, and it’s an odd song because her voice is so much higher and cheerier-sounding than most of her other work, as she’s singing about being so depressed she can’t get out of bed.  Her “Unplugged” cover of Roxy Music’s “More than This” is a classic.  See also Dolores O’Riordan (Cranberries). Johnette Napolitano (Concrete Blonde).  Napolitano has seen it all and knows how fucked up it all is (“Free”).  But she can still be romantic (“The Ship Song”) and tragic (“Tomorrow, Wendy”).  See also Amy Ray (“Indigo Girls”). Janis Joplin (Big Brother and the Holding Company).  My parents were big fans of Joplin when they were together, but by the time I was old enough to remember music, they’d both gotten rid of all their albums.  Too bad, she was amazing.  At first I thought all she did was scream, but now I really hear her emotional range (“Piece of My Heart”, “Me and Bobby McGee”).  I also believed all that bullshit about her being ugly.  In the past few years I’ve seen photos and videos of her, and I honestly think she’s one of the most beautiful women from the Sixties.  Honorable mention: Aretha Franklin, Maria Bethânia, Monique Powell (Save Ferris), Edith Piaf, Linda Perry (4 Non Blondes), Shirley Bassey, Claire Torry (Pink Floyd), Macy Gray.  Now for the more traditional singers.  Phyllis Dillon, the Queen of Rock Steady.  Such a sweet voice (“Don’t Stay Away”, “Perfidia”). Christine McVie (Fleetwood Mac).  She sang these wonderful songs about sex (“Say You Love Me”, “You Make Loving Fun”) that really helped me understand a certain kind of female sexuality. Leigh Bingham Nash (Sixpence None the Richer).  So young and innocent (“Kiss Me”). Marie Michèle Desrosiers (Beau Dommage).  There’s always a lovely poignancy in Desrosiers’ voice (“A toutes les fois”), and she contributes to some of the great group harmonies (“Harmonie du soir à Châteauguay”). Harriet Wheeler (The Sundays).  Very English, very languid (“I Kicked a Boy”, “Wild Horses”).  Honorable mention: Susanna Hoff, Robin Goldwasser (They Might Be Giants), Rickie Lee Jones, Shania Twain. Since I live most of the time as a man, I should mention some of my favorite male singers as well.  For them, the “traditional” ones are the good singers, and the non-traditional ones are, well, maybe better at songwriting or performing than singing, but still have interesting voices.  First the great singers:  Jim Morrison (The Doors).  What is it with all these tenors anyway?  Give me a guy with a great baritone (“The Hyacinth House”, “The Cars Hiss By My Window”).  See also Brad Roberts (Crash Test Dummies). Levon Helm (The Band).  Anyone who can sing and play drums at the same time (“Up on Cripple Creek”) is pretty impressive, and I’ve always loved Helm’s Arkansas accent (“Blue Moon of Kentucky”).  I’m sorry to read that his voice was damaged by throat cancer.  See also John Fogerty (Creedence Clearwater Revival). Morrissey (The Smiths).  The best part of the Smiths was the contrast between Morrissey and Johnny Marr, but I loved Morrissey’s bombast (“Big Mouth Strikes Again”) and melodrama (“There is a Light that Never Goes Out”), especially when I was in high school.  See also Robert Smith (The Cure). Paul Simon (Simon and Garfunkel).  I’ve always found Simon’s tentative shyness (“50 Ways to Leave Your Lover”) highly amusing, as I think he intends.  “Something So Right” is one of my favorite love songs of all time.  See also Steve Winwood (The Spencer Davis Group, Traffic). Randy Travis.  Like Macy Gray, Travis has one of those retro voices, with an amazing texture to it (“Forever and Ever, Amen”).  They’ve both also appeared on “Blue’s Clues.”  See also Rick Astley.  Honorable mention: Neil Young (Buffalo Springfield), Bob Marley, Jeff Healey, Ranking Roger (The English Beat), Mick Jagger (The Rolling Stones), Mark Knopfler (Dire Straits), Barry White, Van Morrison, Marshall Crenshaw. Now for some non-traditional male singers, who maybe can’t sing all that well (in contast to both the traditional and non-traditional women), but still have voices that impressed me in some way.  Fred Schneider (The B-52’s).  I’m leading with him as I led with Kate Pierson for the women.  I love his camp, especially the outer-space stuff (“There’s a Moon in the Sky Called the Moon”), but for sheer silliness nothing beats “Quiche Lorraine.” Serge Gainsbourg.  He had a great voice in the Sixties (“Elaeudanla Teïtéïa”), and smoked too many Gitanes, so by the end of his career he mostly spoke his lines, and relied on backup singers to hold the melody (“Sorry Angel”).    See also Leonard Cohen.  Warren Zevon.  Now there’s a guy with a gravelly voice (“Lawyers, Guns and Money”); at one point in the Hindu Love Gods version of “Vigilante Man” it sounds like he’s hacking up a hairball.  See also Jeff Healey. Elvis Costello.  Nobody does wounded accusation like Elvis Costello (“Busy Bodies”, “Two Little Hitlers”)  You’ve hurt him, and he’s going to let you know just how much.  See also Gordon Gano (Violent Femmes). Shock G/Humpty Hump (Digital Underground).  His voice has so much body and resonance (“Packet Man”, “Kiss Me and I’ll Kiss You Back”).  He’s also hilarious.  Honorable Mention: David Byrne, Michael Stipe, Shaggy, Lou Reed, Tom Petty. Now, wasn’t that self-indulgent?  Hey, if I’ve got a blog, I might as well use it to bore you all with my musical tastes.  After all, it beats working. Articles Ten Favorite Singers I’ve been doing a lot of reading of the history of France, and occasionally I encounter a famous French transgender person (in the umbrella sense of “transgender”).  Today I came across mention of the Abbé François-Timoléon de Choisy.  This is the first I’ve heard of him (I use the male pronouns because he lived as a man for the later part of his life), but I’ll peruse his Aventures de l’abbé de Choisy habillé en femme at my leisure and report back here.  Sadly, his later memoirs are not on line, but they may be worth buying to get an idea of what non-transitioning transgender people can do when they get old. One thing that really galls me is that when I searched for reference to Choisy with the word “transgender,” I came up with a bunch of links that read (emphasis mine): 1676 MTF transsexual Abbe Francois Timoleon de Choisy attended Papal inaugural ball in female dress. His memoirs, published postmortem, offer the first written testimony of cross-dressing. It turns out that these are all copied from a publication by Lambda Legal called “Bending the Mold: An Action Kit for Transgender Youth,” with this note at the end: “Special thanks for assistance and source materials goes to James Hoagland, T. Aaron Hans, Pauline Park, Kay Brown and Leslie Feinberg.”  On a cursory reading, the information and recommendations in “Bending the Mold” seem fairly straightforward and unproblematic.  But it really steams me up that someone would claim as a “MTF transsexual” someone who lived over two hundred years before the word was invented, lived as his birth gender for the last two thirds of his life, and never had any permanent body modifications.  Maybe something in his memoirs will provide some support for an argument that he was a “true transsexual” (blech) on some level, but come on.  Way to put the screws on those trans youth, eh? Anyway, rant’s over.  I’ll update you on our friend the abbot once I’ve had a chance to read more. Articles Media The Abbé de Choisy, first pass Here’s a topic that deserves thoughtful, in-depth treatment.  Unfortunately, I don’t have time for that now, so consider this a placeholder. Today Metafilter had a post linking to a front-page Washington Post article about people who hear voices.  Here are some notable highlights, starting with the first sentence: IF HARLAN GIRARD IS CRAZY, HE DOESN’T ACT THE PART. There’s a lot more in the article on how the people interviewed seem perfectly normal, lucid and coherent other than insisting that the government is controlling their minds.  This reminds me of a quote from Deborah Rudacille’s The Riddle of Gender, where she asserts that transgender people can’t be crazy because they seem so normal otherwise.  Anyone who says that can’t have met very many mentally ill people.  In her book, Abducted, Harvard psychologist Susan Clancy examines a group that has striking parallels to the TIs: people who believe they’ve been kidnapped by aliens. The similarities are often uncanny: Would-be abductees describe strange pains, and feelings of being watched or targeted. And although the alleged abductees don’t generally have auditory hallucinations, they do sometimes believe that their thoughts are controlled by aliens, or that they’ve been implanted with advanced technology. (On the online forum, some TIs posted vociferous objections to the parallel, concerned that the public finds UFOs even weirder than mind control. “It will keep us all marginalized and discredited,” one griped.) Clancy argues that the main reason people believe they’ve been abducted by aliens is that it provides them with a compelling narrative to explain their perception that strange things have happened to them, such as marks on their bodies (marks others would simply dismiss as bruises), stimulation to their sexual organs (as the TIs describe) or feelings of paranoia. “It’s not just an explanation for your problems; it’s a source of meaning for your life,” Clancy says. Comment on the Metafilter discussion thread by spiderskull: They’re so confident in their unwavering belief, you almost want to believe them, if only to release them from what seems to be a tremendous burden. Comment by Kattullus: Also, this is an extreme manifestation of something that exists in all humans, the ability to recognize patterns. It’s like when people believe their iPods “favor” some songs or knows to put on particular songs in certain situations. Articles Beliefs Media So confident Apparently I’ve been banned from the My Husband Betty message boards.  As far as I can tell, I didn’t violate any rules, and I haven’t received any explanation other than the mention of a particular comment that I made.  Well, I’m angry about it, but I know that things said in anger can come back to haunt people, so all I’ll say is that I expected a lot more maturity.  And that I haven’t felt like I was treated fairly there for a while, so I’d rather be banned than be a second-class citizen. What a pain in the ass.  Oh well, life goes on. Personal news Banned, huh? Guest article by Jean-François de Lafayette This page tells a little about me.  I’m Jean-François de Lafayette, and I’m transnational.  Transnational people are people who are assigned citizenship in one country at birth, but who later discover that they belong in another country.  There are millions of transnational people living in the United States alone.  There have been many famous transnational people in the past, including Ernest Hemingway and the Chevalier d’Eon.  I was born in the United States and have American citizenship, but I feel most at home in France. I am at the beginning of a big transition in my life.  In a few months I will get my name legally changed to reflect the Frenchman inside, but unfortunately New York State does not allow me to change my birth certificate, so people will still be able to see my Scottish-American birth identification.  However, I’m currently saving up money and some day soon I will buy a house in France and get French citizenship. Then I will be French on the outside, just like I am on the inside. Since I was a little kid, I’ve always had a fascinaton for France and French things.  My dad told me that when I was teething, he put rum on my gums because it was supposed to ease the pain, and I got drunk and started singing Frère Jacques!  I loved that song, and knew the words by heart.  When my mom put on her Charles Aznavour records I would get up and dance around the room.  Around that time I discovered a special French cheese called “La vache qui rit,” and I couldn’t get enough of it.  I asked her to buy me more every time she went to the store.  I also ate lots of French fries and read Babar books.  I remember when I was four years old, going into the living room and asking her, “Are we in America?”  You can imagine how upset I must have been when she said yes! These kinds of things don’t happen by accident.  Studies conducted at the University of Paris have shown that French children tend to have at least one parent who is either French or related to a French person.  Children born to French parents may look just like Americans at birth, but they start showing signs of being French very early in life, such as speaking the French language and eating French bread. In my case, there were signs of French influence on both sides of my family.  My mother is Jewish, but when she was born, my grandparents decided to give her the French name Suzanne instead of the English version Susan.  She had a French boyfriend before she met my father. My father told me that there was contact with the French going back generations on his side, and one of his ancestors was friends with the Marquis de la Fayette.  He and I, as well as my sister, grew up with crooked teeth, and my mother always said it was because we had large Scottish teeth in a small French mouth.  Clearly, there is some genetic motivation for my transnationalism, but it may also be due to prenatal exposure to French music. When I was nine years old, a new boy moved into my neighborhood.  I noticed an accent, and was overcome with curiosity about him.  I got to know him and discovered he was Belgian.  I was disappointed, but by that time in my life I was already convinced I could never really hope to be French.  Maybe being Belgian wasn’t out of the question?  Living in Belgium might be a way to be French without giving up my American citizenship.  But I was still drawn to France: another neighbor was a girl who was part French Canadian, and she had a large collection of Astérix comic books; I read them all.  And then, my stepfather gave me some wonderful news: we would be taking a trip to visit both Belgium and France. When we arrived in Brussels, my mother and stepfather were jet-lagged and slept for most of the day, but I was so excited I went out by myself and spent the day eating waffles and exploring the main square and the beautiful galleries.  The next day we got on a train for the town of Bruges near the coast.  Unfortunately, as our inkeeper told us, in Bruges they don’t speak French, only Flemish.  I managed to have a good time, but I wasn’t as excited as I had been in Brussels. A few days later we got to Paris.  Paris was big, noisy and full of traffic, and the hotels were shoddy.  We saw the major monuments, but I felt overwhelmed.  We ate lunch at a Parisian café, and I asked the waiter for a large Coca-Cola.  I made a big gesture, holding my arms half a meter apart, to reinforce the “large” size, because I had been served so many small glasses in Europe.  The waiter came back with a humongous stein, half a meter high, full of Coke, just to make fun of me.  I felt very ashamed to be seen by the French as an obnoxious American who drank so much Coke. After we got back from our trip, it was only a few months before I started high school and had to take language classes.  Of course, I took French!  And a little more than halfway through ninth grade I started at a different school, and the French teacher there said that my French was so good, she wanted me to start in French 2!  Even then, I felt that the class was going a little slow for me, so my teacher said that if I did extra exercises she’d let me move up to the next class.  By the end of that year I’d done half the questions on every French 2 and 3 exercise in the book, and I started French 4 in the Fall.  I’d done French 1, 2 and 3 in a single year!  Looking back, it seems so obvious what the truth was, but nobody seemed to see it then. One of the things that complicated the picture was that I didn’t care much for French literature.  I couldn’t get excited about André Gide, Guy de Maupassant or even François Truffaut, but I liked Samuel Beckett and Eugène Ionesco, themselves transnational Frenchmen.  Still, I thought I couldn’t be really French unless I appreciated French literature and film, could I?  It wasn’t until later that I met French people who liked comic books and science fiction like me. When I got accepted to college, I was happy to hear that there was a floor where everyone spoke French.  I’d be able to be around people just like me!  But meeting some of these people face to face was a bit of a disappointment.  Some of them didn’t speak French very well, some had ridiculous accents, and some were really interested in literature.  In retrospect I think many of them were really Americans acting out a fantasy of what they thought it was like to be French, rather than true transnationals.  I thought at the time that maybe my interest in French was just a general interest in languages, so I took German my first semester and Spanish the second, but I wound up taking French again in my sophomore year.  I just couldn’t stay away from it. Then in my sophomore year my friends started talking about spending a year abroad.  I was excited at the idea.  I had been feeling ashamed to be an American anyway, since the country had just invaded Iraq for the first time.  There were a lot of things that bothered me about the American lifestyle, and I was quite prepared for the possibility that I might want to stay in Europe for the rest of my life.  I was still thinking that Brussels was the place for me, but I couldn’t find a good study abroad program there.  I talked to my friends, and three of them had decided to apply to the same study abroad program in Paris. I looked into it, and it definitely seemed the best, so I decided to go too. The first month in Paris was very stressful for me.  It was hard being in a place where everything was so different.  But I was very much driven to succeed there, and to fit in.  I made an agreement with some of the other people in the study abroad program that we would try to speak French to each other as much as possible.  I moved in with three French students, two brothers and a sister, and discovered that they were transnational as well: their father was from Sardinia.  I took classes and my fluency improved.  After two months I was sitting in class and realized that I was understanding my professor without thinking about what he was saying!  I made French friends and was invited to go to cafés and parties with them, just like a regular Frenchman. Eventually I learned how to do things just like the French.  I could walk into a bakery and conduct an entire transaction in French, and I don’t think the bakers even knew I wasn’t French!  I learned just when to pull up the handle on the metro doors so that they would open as soon as possible.  I ate couscous and merguez, just like real French people do. It’s hard to overcome twenty years of socialization, though, and in a lot of ways I looked and felt very American.  Sometimes I wore shorts, even though I didn’t go jogging.  I found myself shopping in the imported goods sections of supermarkets looking for peanut butter.  I even went to an American specialty store to buy Oreos.  There was a lot of pressure on me, and I felt lonely.  The idea of finding work was daunting.  I succumbed to the pressure and returned to the US.  I felt sad, even though there was no good reason why.  I had made some friends, but I was planning to stay in contact with them.  Many of my friends were Americans from the study abroad program who were going back to the US too.  Still, the minute the plane left the ground I started crying uncontrollably.  I know now that I was abandoning my true self, but at the time I couldn’t explain it. I went back to America, and tried to live as an American.  I finished my B.A. and got a master’s.  I became a successful computer technician.  I met a lovely woman who later became my wife.  But at times I missed Paris.  New York was close enough, but it just didn’t feel right.  I got involved in a group that held French parties every month, where French people who wanted to be Americans would dance with Americans who wanted to be French.  Those were fun, but there was something unsatisfying about them.  It seemed like a lot of people at the parties were fixated on sex, but for me the desire to be French went deeper. I continued to think I was interested in languages in general.  I took night classes in American Sign Language for a year.  I knew that American Sign Language was a descendant of French Sign Language, but I thought I was interested in it for its own sake.  I enrolled in a PhD program in linguistics, planning to study ASL, but I found myself writing papers on French instead.  What was more disturbing was that people seemed to like my work on French better.  I took a job with a French company based in New York, but I was frustrated that they didn’t give me more work to do on French. I also met a wonderful American woman and in 2001 we were married. We went on our honeymoon in France, and had a wonderful time, but I still felt wistful and kept visiting my old haunts.  I wasn’t excited about coming back to the US either, but I had work to do.  The French company I worked for succumbed to the dot-com crash and laid me off shortly after I got back from France.  I continued work on my PhD, and decided to do my dissertation on French.  I applied for teaching jobs, and was hired to teach French at a university in the area. Two months ago I went back to Paris to do research.  I was only there for two weeks, but in some ways it felt like I’d never left.  Because I didn’t have much money I booked a room in a dorm for transnational students from America and ate in the student cafeterias.  I fell right back into that student lifestyle, and in between visits to the library I walked all over the city.  I even passed for French again; I spent several minutes talking with an American librarian, and she didn’t know I was American until I told her.  It felt like I belonged there and I kept feeling the impulse to explore more, to learn more about the city and the country.  I missed my wife and our young son, but I didn’t want to go back; I wanted to bring them to France. Even before I left, I was thinking about how to get back to France. I’ve seen ads for jobs that require Americans or native English speakers.  When my PhD is finished, I can apply for jobs teaching English in France.  But my wife is not enthusiastic about the idea. Even though she is part Acadian, she doesn’t speak French as well as I do, and has never felt the same draw to it.  She thought she was marrying an American, and doesn’t want to live in France.  She might be willing to spend a summer in France, but doesn’t want to settle there. I don’t know what to do.  I feel torn.  I can try to live with this desire to be French, but I don’t know for how long.  I don’t want to lose my wife or be separated from my son, but I don’t want to live in denial either.  I’m taking steps to ease the situation.  Studying French for my dissertation helps to calm me.  I regularly buy a pain au chocolat from the local French bakery, and go to French restaurants when I can.  Still, there are times when I need to be an American.  It makes my son happy to go to McDonalds, so I go with him, but it feels really fake, and I have to fight the urge to order a Royal cheese instead of a Quarter Pounder.  You can’t go through your life for everyone else, though, and sometimes you just have to be true to yourself and hope that people will see that you’re really the same inside. I have a friend who seems to have it all going on.  He not only speaks Spanish, but Catalan as well.  His boyfriend of more than fifteen years is from Barcelona, and they are planning to take advantage of the new Spanish laws and get married.  They spend part of every summer in Spain, and soon he’ll have Spanish citizenship, but they still come back here every fall.  The other day I asked him, “Don’t you feel bad coming back to the US?”  He said, “You get used to it.”  I feel like telling him, “Face it, Miguel, you’re transnational! You’re totally Spanish.  Why don’t you try to move to Spain permanently?” He’s so lucky. The preceding is a work of fiction.  The narrator’s interpretations of the facts and his plans for his future are entirely fictional.  However, the facts themselves, including the narrator’s feelings, are closely based on actual facts and feelings in the author’s life. Articles Categorization Fiction My Story Thank you for your thoughtful piece on Michael Madison Smith, the eunuch politician and statesman.  Over the course of her long life, Smith made so many changes that have improved all our lives today.  As the first transgender senator of the United States of America, Smith showed us all that we can succeed without shame.  As a key member of the Cherished Leader’s Forward Action Team, he convinced the Leader (MHSRIP) to cancel Jenna Bush’s proposed Great Purge and saved the lives of millions of gay, lesbian and bisexual Citizens.  In her private life, he and her spouse, Nicole Stephen Kleinbort, reclaimed the term “eunuch” and founded the Two Spirit Lodge, which continues to protect and enrich the lives of eunuchs throughout the Domain.  Truly a remarkable life. Sincerely, ROBERTO JUANITA MACLAWHORN Grand Bullock, Two Spirit Lodge Raleigh del Mar, Carolina del Norte Articles Fiction pronouns Remembering M. M. Smith To the Editor: Thank you for your moving tribute to Madison Smith, the last transgender person in America.  It is indeed a whole way of life that passed with her.  Nowadays no one born male has any desire to wear women’s clothes, or to live as a woman, and vice versa with women.  As expected, rates of depression, suicide and prostitution have all dropped significantly. Most of your readership is too young to remember this, but growing up in lower Park Slope, Brooklyn (now sadly underwater), I saw a number of older transgender and genderqueer people around.  It was fascinating for a young child to see people who had a combination of male and female characteristics.  You can get a bit of this flavor from watching old movies, but it was even more interesting in person.  We have lost a bit of color in our lives, but at least we can be assured that through the discovery of hormone balancing, no one will ever again have to suffer the way that transgender people suffered. I commend the Central Executive for their continuing success in these matters. Sincerely, JENNIFER X. LIU The Palms at Baffin Island Articles Fiction Madison Smith dead at 122 Masculine-identified, female-bodied comedian Ian Harvie and his friend, comedian Margaret Cho, were harassed and assaulted (can you think of a better word for a private citizen grabbing your breasts without permission?) in the women’s room at a Halloween fundraising party in the Waldorf-Astoria. Read Cho’s telling of the story first for the quick introduction. Then read Harvie’s telling for some priceless details. This was a bit of an eye-opener for me.  I’d heard that masculine-spectrum genderqueer people got questioned in women’s rooms, but I didn’t know the extent of it.  I really appreciate now the extent of their predicament: use the women’s room and get harassed like Harvie, or use the men’s room and get arrested like Dean Spade.  Yeesh. Articles Bathrooms General News Media Violence Bathrooms: A Masculine-Spectrum Perspective On this National Coming Out Day, a lot of it feels so old news.  I came out in 1996 – over twenty years ago!  And yet I’m still uncomfortable talking about my sexuality.  I say the word “transvestite,” but I don’t stress what it means.  I posted a version of this last year as a private post on Facebook, but I’ve been afraid to put it in a blog post, or even a tweet – afraid that if people find out it will destroy any credibility I have as a trans person, destroy my social life, and make people not want to hire me. On some levels it seems like we’ve made such strides in terms of openness and acceptance of sexuality, and on other levels it feels like we’re stuck back in 1950 or even 1880 and haven’t moved an inch.  Even in terms of trans acceptance, we’ve made progress, but only at the cost of a lot of us denying our sexuality.  Is that really progress? Anyway, I’m a transvestite.  And yes, that means I’m transgender.  Are you a transvestite too?  Happy National Coming Out Day! Articles Categorization Sexuality The closet Coming out as a transvestite I re-read my last post and was kicking myself for focusing on mothers and spouses, and not mentioning fathers and siblings.  As a father myself, I always get annoyed when I read “parenting” magazines that assume that the parents are all female, so I feel I owe it to all the other fathers out there to set the record straight. I should also put in a word for siblings.  Krystal Heskin’s sister has been very vocal in supporting her memory.  Siblings can do a lot for each other. A mother’s concern makes a bigger splash in the news.  I could come up with a dozen examples of high-profile mothers in the news right off the top of my head, but it’s hard to think of fathers.  Two that come to mind are controversial: Michael Berg and Juan Miguel Gonzalez.   Of course, their sons weren’t trans as far as we know, and I can’t think of any well-known fathers of transgender people, let alone of murdered transgender people.  I have no information on the fathers of Gwen Araujo or Krystal Heskin.  I imagine that many of the transgender prostitutes who are murdered would not need to work in such a dangerous field if they had more support from their fathers. (After writing that last paragraph, I realized that I do know of one well-known father of a transgendered person: Ernest Hemingway.  I was actually trying to think of people who were famous specifically for being fathers of transgender people, but I think Hemingway is important.  He’s the only one I can think of, and he was not an example of a supportive father.) In fact, I can only think of a few trans people I know who receive support from their fathers.  Several of my transsexual acquaintances have had bitter fallings out with their fathers over their transitions.  My own father was lukewarm about my transgenderism and changed the subject whenever it came up.  My stepfather has been more supportive, but not exactly positive about the whole thing. I can understand why fathers can have a harder time than mothers, particularly with male-to-female transgender people.  A son’s desire to be a woman can be perceived as a rejection of the father’s role model, and that perception may be accurate.  It can also raise oedipal issues (touched on by Almodovar) that might have been easier dealt with during early childhood.  These don’t justify a father’s lack of support, even if they do help to explain it. Of course, fathers can be just as devastated by mothers when something happens to their kids, and they’re often in a better position to do something about it.  One of the reasons why the story of a mother fighting for her children (or her children’s memory) is news is because the odds are against her.  This may be one of the missing pieces of information in the Day of Remembrance and the stories of murdered transgender people: where were their fathers? Here is an idea for next year’s Transgender Day of Remembrance: a pledge for fathers and stepfathers of transpeople. I, _________________, (step)father of _______________, condemn violence against transgender people.  I pledge that I will do everything in my power to protect my child from anti-transgender violence, and that I will support efforts to end violence against all transgender people. Articles Violence The Power of Fathers (and Siblings) The subject of unity and the Transgender Day of Remembrance leads me to an unpleasant issue.  Helen Boyd had a relatively innocuous post about the Day, and then a transwoman named Arlene Starr attacked her for presuming to use the phrase “our dead.”  You see, Helen is not trans herself (although she has described having transgender feelings), she’s “only” married to a transwoman.  Kind of the way I’m “just a cross-dresser.” The problem is, God forbid I’m ever killed, who would suffer the most?  My wife, my son and the rest of my family.  Who worries the most about me getting attacked?  My wife and my mother.  The same is true, by and large, for Helen’s husband Betty.  Think about Sylvia Guerrero (PDF), mother of Gwen Araujo, and Jennie Heskin, mother of Krystal Heskin. Think, also, about the impact that spouses and mothers have had on public policy when their children’s lives are at stake.  No one wants to be against motherhood, and very few people want to be seen as coming between a mother and her children.  (The less said the better about those who are against marriage for transpeople, or who would come between a transperson and their partner.)   I’m very proud that my own mother has been active in this area, and I think it’s made a difference.  Our loved ones are natural allies in this. Most importantly, as Marlena Dahlstrom wrote in the comments on Starr’s blog, partners and other loved ones can be targets too.  Private first class Barry Winchell was brutally murdered in 1999 for dating a transwoman, Calpernia Addams, who has since become a nationwide community leader. (Interestingly, as the article I linked discusses, people downplayed Addams’s identification as a woman and Winchell’s identification as heterosexual in order to construe his murder as a gay murder and fit it into a wider debate about gays in the military.  While it is certainly related to those issues, it is not the same.  I think this raises similar issues about claiming the dead and demanding reforms based on them as I mentioned in my last post.) Articles Media Violence Whose Dead? Whose Day? Last Monday, November 20, was the annual Transgender Day of Remembrance, to mark all those who have been killed for being transgender or gender-variant.  It isn’t something far off in the past, either: just the day before, Gregorio Sandoval was brutally stabbed to death in Antioch, CA, about 45 miles east of San Francisco. It is remote for me in other ways, though: I’ve never been attacked for being trans, and nobody close to me has.  I think it has to do with being white, middle-class, not rejected by my family, and not involved in casual sex or prostitution. I’ve been a bit reluctant to post about the Day of Remembrance  because I think that some of these killings are terrorist acts designed to keep transpeople afraid.  I think it is somewhat dangerous for me to go out in public cross-dressed, but not nearly as much as if I were black or Hispanic or a sex worker, lived in a poor neighborhood or had casual sex with men.  I’m wary about demanding rights or services for myself based on the sufferings of others. I’m also wary about telling people what to do.  I firmly believe that some of the blame for these deaths lies with the black and Hispanic community leaders, especially the religious leaders who spew hate from the pulpit.  But as some lovely Latina teenager said to me the other day after I complained about her holding the subway doors, “Figures it would be a white guy.”  Well, this white guy sees other transpeople as brothers and sisters, and I feel that it’s partly my responsibility to use my white middle-class privilege to publicize these horrible murders.  We need some unity to overcome this, and we need to take advantage of what different members of the community bring to the table.  I was pleased to see that my old high school is listed as having an event commemorating this day. Articles Violence Remembering Our Dead Curbed is linking to a New York Times article about how Charmin toilet paper is planning to sponsor a twenty-stall bathroom in Times Square for the holiday shopping season.  The article is vague, but as far as I can tell it will all be individual stalls. There’s no mention of transgender people in the article, and ideally, it should be taken for granted that we’ll be welcome.  The PR possibilities are intriguing.  If a TG person were denied use of the bathroom, would that be good press, or would people be sympathetic to Proctor and Gamble?  On the other hand, would it be possible to get a positive photo-op, say with some glamorous drag queens?  Would P&G be too afraid of freaking out the square tourists? Bathrooms Glamour Media NY Times: P&G will open “Charmin” holiday bathrooms in Times Square I first posted this on May 6, 2006, and I’m surprised I haven’t reposted it here.  Thanks to various people from the My Husband Betty Message Boards for helpful feedback. Introduction In linguistics, there are many who frown on the idea of conscious control of language use, individual or collective, such as in the book published in 1950 called Leave Your Language Alone.  People who try to control language are sometimes called prescriptivists, a term that conjures up images of stuffy grammarians writing pedantic articles about punctuation.  However, in her 1995 book Verbal Hygiene, Deborah Cameron argued that there are all kinds of reasons to advocate or attempt language change, and some are good (eliminating sexist generic statements like “A good doctor talks to his patients”) and some are bad (using natural variations as shibboleths to discriminate against people from stigmatized ethnic groups).  Cameron’s point is that the important thing is to be aware of the reasons and to subject them to an open decision-making process. With that in mind, I have some things to say about the use of the word transgender. I am not doing this to discriminate or belittle people, or out of blind deference to tradition.  I’m also not out to demonize anyone or blame anyone else for these problems.  I have specific reasons for arguing against a current change in usage, and for a specific way of thinking about the term.  I also want people to be aware of the effects of the language that they use, and the consequences of their choices.  I’m going to be drawing on the field of lexical semantics, which itself draws on psychology, artificial intelligence, computer science and philosophy. The word transgender and its intended and actual usage It’s easy to find a definition of transgender on the web or in recent books.  The original use was a shortened form of transgenderist, a term coined by Virginia Prince to refer to someone who transitions to a new gender without surgery.  That one usually isn’t mentioned; instead, you’ll find either the “umbrella” definition where transgender is a collective term including transsexuals, cross-dressers, drag queens, people who present androgynously and others.  Another common definition links transgenderism to gender identity disorder, the psychiatric diagnosis for someone who believes that they’re a gender different from the one assigned to them. In fact, it is now common for transgender to be used as a synonym for transsexual.  More specifically, a euphemism for transsexual.  Many transsexuals have stated, both in public and in private, that they have used it because they are uncomfortable with the fact that transsexual contains the word sex.  Even though it refers to sexual differentiation and not sexual intercourse, some people are afraid that they will be stigmatized as perverts if they are too closely associated with the word sex. Significantly, there is even recently widespread use of the term transgender surgery or gender reassignment surgery to describe surgical operations that have in the past been called sex changes, sexual reassignment surgery or genital reassignment surgery. This change in usage is a problem for me and other part-time cross-dressers, but it is very difficult to explain why.  The reasons are fairly complicated and relate to mental categories, prototype effects, peer pressure and the difference between feelings and actions.  I hope you’ll stick with me through the explanation. Feelings versus actions The first point is that feelings and actions are different.  There are many different cross-gender feelings.  Some people feel that they are really a different gender.  Some feel that they were born into the wrong body.  Some feel a desire to be a different gender, sometimes or all the time.  Some want to pretend to be a different gender, sometimes or all the time.  Some want to get away from their assigned gender.  Some want to wear certain clothes, or to act a certain way, or to have a certain job, or to relate to other people in a certain way, and feel that presenting as another gender makes it easier.  Some are content with their gender, all the time or maybe just sometimes. Many of these feelings contradict each other, and many people feel several contradictory feelings, either at the same time, over the course of a day, or throughout their lifetime. Based on one or more of the feelings I listed above, or other feelings, people may be motivated to do one or more of the following: act in a way that doesn’t conform to gender expectations; wear clothes assigned to a different gender, sometimes or all the time, visibly or not; groom themselves in ways associated with a different gender; present as a different gender, sometimes or all the time; present androgynously; change their name to an androgynous one or one associated with a different gender; take the hormones assigned to a different sex; surgically modify their body to resemble a different sex; take legal steps to change their name or assigned gender.  Some may not take any actions at all, but simply imagine themselves as a different gender or with a different body. Some may act in sexual ways, including sexual fantasies, masturbation while cross-dressed, taking sexual roles traditionally associated with a different gender, imagining themselves as a different gender while having sex, imagining themselves with a different body while having sex, flirting while cross-dressed, having sex while cross-dressed, or transitioning to a new gender and having sex in ways associated with that new gender. This list of feelings and actions is not meant to be exhaustive. I’m sure there are other cross-gender feelings, and plenty of other ways of expressing these feelings as well. There is NOT one way to be transgender The key here is that, to quote Jamison Green, there is NOT one way to be transgender.  A person who feels any combination of the feelings described above may take any of the actions described above, or none of these actions.  They may have any number of reasons for choosing the actions they do, and there is no way to know without asking them.  The actions they take do not necessarily provide any clues to their feelings.  They may not even be aware of their own reasons for their choices. This is not to say that some ways of dealing with transgenderism aren’t preferable to others.  There are all kinds of ways to be transgender: bold ways and timid ways, risky ways and safe ways, proud ways and shameful ways.  It is reasonable to encourage some ways of dealing with transgender feelings and discourage others. Whatever some may think, people have a right to live their lives as they choose, free from discrimination or harassment, as long as they are not hurting others.  Furthermore, at this point there is very little known for sure about the causes and effects of various transgender feelings and actions, and any recommendations about the appropriate courses of action are just opinions. The role of transgender dogma There are certain ways of thinking about transgenderism that encourage particular actions and discourage others.  There’s nothing wrong with that, but the ones I’m thinking of aren’t up front about it.  Often the recommendations and encouragements aren’t explicitly labeled as such, but presented as fact.  More often, and more insidiously, they are not presented at all, but simply implied.  This has the effect of encouraging people to take drastic action without thinking carefully and explicitly about it, and without being aware of all their options. I’m talking about a collection of beliefs that I call transgender dogma.  Transgender dogma is the idea that there are some people who (to use male-to-female terms as an example) appear male, but are really female inside.  They have always believed themselves to be female, and it is their destiny to realize this female self-image.  The only way they can really be happy is to change their bodies to appear female and transition to a female identity. For female-to-male transpeople, they appear female but have always believed themselves to be male, and it is their destiny to transition to a male identity.  The dogma usually also expects that the person will be attracted to, and romantically and sexually involved with, the “appropriate” gender: MTF transgendered people with men and FTM transgendered people with women. Unfortunately, as described above, the reality is nowhere near as tidy.  The “science” that is cited to support this dogma is nowhere near as reliable or conclusive as often claimed.  Some MTF transpeople do not begin to believe that they are really women until they are nine, twelve or seventeen years old. Some transpeople have a strong desire to be the other gender without actually believing they are the other gender.  Some have an equally strong desire to remain in their assigned gender.  Some just want to get away from their assigned gender.  Some people’s feelings change from day to day, from month to month, or over their lifetime. The claims for destiny and happiness are also problematic.  There are a significant number of transgender regret cases, people who have taken particular actions in accordance with the dogma, and not been satisfied with the results.  Some have continued with more and more extreme actions and body modifications, believing that they’re just not (again, in the MTF direction) pretty or feminine enough, or living the right lifestyle.  Some have de-transitioned, changed their hormone dosages, or had surgery to reverse the effects of earlier hormones or surgery.  Some have simply made the best of the situation they wound up in.  Others have changed their minds before they took certain actions. Conversely, there are some transgendered people who are able to build a satisfactory life for themselves without following the recommendations in the dogma.  Some have certain body modifications but not others.  Some are content with transition without body modification, or body modification without transition.  Some live androgynous lifestyles.  Some present as one gender part of the time, and another gender the rest of the time.  Some cross-dress at home or in other safe spaces.  Some underdress, wearing the underwear assigned to one gender with the outer clothes of another, or make subtle cosmetic or clothing choices to satisfy their cross-gender desires.  Some simply fantasize. There are many people who would like to take certain actions but can’t because of issues related to job, family or passability issues. However, many of the people I mentioned in the preceding paragraph are doing exactly what they want to do.  They’ve had the opportunity to take the dogma-recommended actions and have chosen not to, because it’s not what they want.  They have not followed the transgender dogma, but are as satisfied as some of those who do. Problems with dogmatic expectations Looking back at the opening discussion of the use of the word transgender and other descriptions of transgenderism, the people who don’t follow the transgender dogma are often invisible and ignored.  If someone hasn’t had “the surgery,” it is assumed to be because of financial or other difficulties beyond their control.  If someone has clearly chosen not to follow the dogmatic route, it may be assumed that they are not “really” transgendered.  There are specific problems caused by these assumptions, related to invisibility, discrimination and pressure. Invisibility Over the past several years, a number of service providers have broadened their services from the gay and lesbian communities to include bisexual and transgendered people.  Often, the only services offered for transpeople are related to transition, body modification, or promiscuous sex.  There are various campaigns for “transgender rights” or “transgender equality,” and many focus on transition-related and body-modification-related rights, without addressing rights that may be important to other transpeople. Organizations like The Straight Spouse Network have included all bisexual and transgender people even though many bisexual and transgender people do not bring up the issues of divorce, infidelity and sexual unavailability that are raised by gay and lesbian spouses. Discrimination When transgendered people take non-approved actions, they can be discriminated against.  Because I have decided against transition and body modifications, and because I acknowledge the sexual actions I take in response to my transgender feelings, I have been told at more than one transgender group, “You’re not really transgendered.  What are you doing here?”  Other people have reported the same thing. Pressure There is significant pressure on transgender people to follow the approved program.  I and other transpeople have often been asked “so when are you going to start taking hormones?” or offered the number of a good surgeon.  Compliments like “you could totally pass,” or “you’d look great if you just …” are a subtle form of pressure.  Most disturbingly, several transpeople I know have described medical and psychological professionals recommending particular courses of action without even consulting their patients about what they want to do. What’s wrong with a little pressure?  The main thing is that no one knows for sure what would work for a given transgendered person.  Some may be satisfied following the standard transition-and-body-modification path, but others may not.  Allowing a person enough information to contemplate all their options without pressure is likely to minimize the cases of regret, and maximize the number of transgendered people who are satisfied with their lives.  A person who has not made up their mind what to do with their life may be pressured to make irreversible changes to their body or their relationships, and possibly regret those changes later.  A person who has made up their mind is likely to feel annoyed or unwelcome under pressure. The role of gender euphoria What’s the big deal about a little pressure?  People can take care of themselves, right?  Not always.  I’m not even talking about complex issues such as a recommendation from an authority figure like a doctor, or a parent making a decision for a young child. It’s not well known that transpeople aren’t always mentally competent.  Believe me, this isn’t an insult to transpeople, because it’s something I’ve felt many times myself.  There’s a phenomenon sometimes known as gender euphoria that really messes with a transperson’s ability to make rational decisions.  When a transgender person takes a particular step, such as going out in public cross-dressed, he or she feels intense excitement and pleasure that can last for days.  This sounds like a good thing, but it is often accompanied by impulses to do actions that the person later regrets. It’s not clear exactly where gender euphoria comes from, but we can speculate that it has to do with the feeling of finally getting some affirmation for a person’s sense of gender, transgender status, appearance or sex appeal.  It may be an “equal and opposite reaction” to the shame and restriction felt when in the closet. To give a personal example, I once was so excited about going out in public in Manhattan that I went home cross-dressed to my apartment in the notoriously homophobic and transphobic South Bronx, where I was recognized by three of my neighbors.  Fortunately, there were no negative consequences of this action, but I could have been attacked if the wrong person had seen me.  What disturbed me more than the action itself was the fact that my decision was so impulsive, and so dismissive of the potential consequences.  It really felt, in retrospect, like I was drunk or otherwise under the influence. I’ve heard similar stories, some more extreme, from and about many other transpeople.  Some people have left their spouses and families, some have come out to the wrong people, some have engaged in sexual conduct that they later regretted.  Not all of the rash decisions have been pro-transgender: some people “purge” their cross-dressing clothing or supplies right after these heady experiences, only to regret their purges later. Based on these stories and on my own experience of gender euphoria, I’ve come to the conclusion that I will not make any decision that affects my life long-term within a week after a public cross-dressing excursion, and I discourage other transpeople from doing anything like that.  (Transpeople who have gone out in public frequently for a significant length of time have probably habituated themselves, so the effect of gender euphoria is small enough for them to make unimpaired decisions.) The next piece of the puzzle is that many people are exposed to pressure at support group meetings, transgender-oriented bars and parties and transgender conventions, which are times when they may be feeling the effects of gender euphoria.  To put pressure on someone to make a major life decision when they are under the influence of gender euphoria is dangerous.  If the person bringing the pressure is aware of gender euphoria, it is irresponsible and manipulative. Pressure through semantic frames Interestingly, many of the semantic frames used in transgender discussions can themselves be a form of pressure.  Frame theory was first developed in the 1970s by Charles Fillmore, Marvin Minsky and Roger Schank, and recently popularized in the political field by George Lakoff.  Frames are common scenarios that people extract from their experience, and can then “activate” or “evoke” by the use of certain words or combinations of words. A common example of a semantic frame is the “restaurant frame” that can be evoked by the use of the words “waiter,” or “chef,” or the combination of the words “table,” “dish” and “check” (none of which may be sufficient to evoke the frame by itself).  It is possible to make metaphorical or humorous points by juxtaposing two frames, as in the classic joke, “A guy walks into a bar and says ‘ow!'”  You can read about Lakoff’s application of frame theory to politics in this Berkeley press release. The relevance of frame theory to this issue is to explain some very subtle forms of pressure.  Many frames have expected or recommended actions built into them, so just as in Lakoff’s example when conservatives call voting against Democratic candiates “voter revolt” they are encouraging people to do it, when some transgender people refer to transition or body modification as “being true to yourself,” they are making an implicit recommendation for these actions, and an implicit condemnation of transgendered people who don’t choose these actions. Pressure, prototype effects and the transgender hierarchy Another phenomenon that creates pressure is the transgender hierarchy, where some transgender people are seen as better, more accomplished or more deserving of respect or attention.  Sometimes the hierarchy is quite explicitly set up, and I’ve seen this done both by transsexuals claiming higher status than cross-dressers, and by cross-dressers encouraging each other to grant transsexuals higher status.  However, cross-dressers and transsexuals are not the only members of the hierarchy: transvestite prostitutes are considered to be higher-status than panty fetishists, for example.  Often the hierarchy is set up very implicitly, and sometimes quite unconsciously.  It is frequently done by the use of phrases like “I realized I was more than just a cross-dresser.”  It can even be done by simply invoking a frame, such as mentioning a transsexual or drag queen’s “courage,” without acknowledging that transvestites can be courageous as well. The most subtle form of the transgender hierarchy is a prototype effect, an idea developed by Eleanor Rosch and also popularized by Lakoff, where one member of a category comes to be seen as a better example of that category.  It is probably not intentional that transsexuals have come to be seen as the prototype transgendered people, but this has likely happened because they are the most dramatic examples.  It is also a way that the transgender hierarchy perpetuates itself, and here we come back to the problem I put forward at the beginning, where transgender is seen as a synonym or euphemism for transsexual. This difference in status can act as a form of pressure.  It is natural to want to be a member of a higher-status category and to be seen as more courageous, more central and a better example.  Many people also want more attention paid to themselves, their peers and their problems. Pressure and coercion In the past I have referred to these subtle kinds of pressure as coercion, which is a technical term used in lexical semantics and ultimately borrowed from computer science.  In this specialized case, type coercion refers to the act of implicitly changing a thing from one category to another by using it in a different context.  It’s kind of like shoehorning.  In computer science, some languages (like Perl) allow a programmer to coerce a text string to a number by simply using it in a number context.  The following example Perl code coerces the text string “2” into the integer 2, adds it to the number 3 to make 5, and then coerces the 5 back into the text string “5” and prints it: print "2" + 3; Without coercion, we would have to do each of the conversions explicitly, and the code would be significantly longer and more tedious: print ( sprintf ( '%0d' , ( int ( '2' ) + 3 ) ) ); My use of the word coercion was intended to convey the idea that by evoking certain frames of transgender dogma, some authors implicitly force non-conforming transgenders to chose between conforming or being excluded from the category transgender.  As discussed above, this is a form of pressure. Unfortunately, the terms coercion and coercive language have well-established uses outside of lexical semantics, where they refer to people persuading each other by using threats. Great linguist that I am, I did not consider this usage, and failed to anticipate that when I used the term coercive language, some people would think I was accusing them of threatening and bullying people. Pressure and prescriptivism I searched for another term to convey the concept I was trying to get at with coercion, and I finally found one:  prescriptivism.  In conflating feelings and actions, transgender dogma prescribes a set of actions for everyone who wants to bear the label transgender and be entitled to “transgender” rights and services.  It doesn’t matter how you feel about yourself, if you haven’t committed to the program and made progress (or provided a good excuse), then you must not be “really” transgender, just a cross-dresser. Coming back to the term prescriptivism brings us back to Deborah Cameron and her concept of verbal hygiene.  Verbal hygiene is a more up-front and rational version of prescriptivism. The reasons for prescriptivism are usually implicit or even unconscious, and based on unthinking conservatism and prejudice.  By contrast, the reasons for verbal hygiene can be almost anything, and are usually openly discussed and debated.  I don’t believe that a term like “gender hygiene” is appropriate here, but I do believe in a more open and explicit discussion of the reasons for recommending various actions in response to transgender feelings. My recommendations So what should people do about the issues of language I’ve discussed here?  I’ll lay out my desires and recommendations here. I’ll be explicit about my agenda.  I’m a transvestite who has many of the transgender feelings I described above.  I’ve made the choice not to pursue transition or body modification.  I want to see that choice respected in the community, and I want to have access to the “transgender services” and rights appropriate to my feelings and actions.  I want to have the status of a full, equal member of the transgender community, not marginal status, I want my voice to be heard, and I want to see people who look like me as examples of the category transgender. I also have concerns about people who come after me, about people who reach the stages in their lives that I did, at whatever ages they reach them: exploration, shame, fear, anger, loneliness, reaching out, coming out, more exploration, and various decisions about what actions to take in response to their feelings.  I want people like me, whose desire to be the opposite gender is balanced by other desires, to be able to decide freely to spend most of the rest of their lives in their assigned gender and not be shamed, humiliated, belittled or marginalized for it. Here are some changes I want to see towards those ends.  Separate feelings from actions.  Keep the definition of  transgender one based on feelings, and use other words to  describe the actions taken in response to those feelings. Acknowledge different ways of being transgender.  Don’t  confine all your examples of transgender actions to one subgroup.  If  you do, avoid using the unmodified word transgender and  instead use phrases like transitioning transgender or  body-modifying transgender. Respect different ways of being transgender.  Don’t  pressure people.  Recognize that everyone has their own life to live.  What works for one may not work for another.  No one has all the  answers, far from it. Avoid implicitly prescriptive language.  If you’re  advocating a particular action, be up front about it.  Don’t hide  behind framing and exclusion. Acknowledge and respect gender euphoria.  Be aware of when  someone may be under the influence of gender euphoria, and avoid  encouraging any drastic or dangerous actions.  Encourage them to take  time to think through their choices.  In closing, I want to make it clear that this article is not meant as an attack on any person or group of people, transgendered or otherwise.  Although some of the most extreme pressure and dogma I’ve encountered has come from transsexuals, I know plenty of transsexuals who avoid them, and treat all other transgender people with respect due equals.  I also ascribe no malice to any of these prescriptive actions; as far as I can tell, they arise from ignorance at best and incompetence or indifference at worst. Actions Articles Categorization Feelings Verbal Hygiene Transgender Verbal Hygiene: Feelings or Actions? Amnesty International has put out a press release on Christina Sforza’s case, specifically focusing on the NYPD Midtown South Precinct’s inadequate response to the situation.  I hope this will get some action on the matter. AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL USA PRESS RELEASE Friday, October 27, 2006 NYPD Must Investigate Response to Alleged Assault of Transgender Woman at McDonald’s, Says Amnesty InternationalCharges Against Sforza Dropped But Justice Still Not Served, Group Says (New York) — Amnesty International called on the New York Police Department to investigate possible human rights violations by its officers in their handling of the case of Christina Sforza, a transgender woman involved in an altercation at a McDonald’s restaurant in Manhattan. Sforza claims that officers responding to the incident failed to exercise due diligence in not taking seriously her claim that she was the victim of a hate crime, that they subjected her to false arrest and that they further abused her while in their custody. All charges against Christina Sforza were dropped on Thursday, October 26. “The NYPD needs to conduct an immediate and impartial investigation into the incident — and hold accountable anyone found responsible for abuses,” said Michael Heflin, director of OUTfront, Amnesty International USA’s program on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) human rights. “If Sforza’s allegations are substantiated, these are serious human rights violations. The allegations of mistreatment by police are especially troubling because they fit a pattern of abuses that Amnesty International has documented.” Amnesty International members around the world are writing letters to Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly urging his immediate attention to the issue. Sforza asserts that she is not guilty of the charges that were filed against her — “assault with intent to cause physical injury” and “harassment in the second degree.” She says that she was the one who was physically assaulted on July 10 at the McDonald’s restaurant at 341 Fifth Avenue by a man she believes to be the manager. Sforza reports that after being in the bathroom for a minute or two the manager began yelling, “I’m going to kill you, faggot.” She alleges that when she opened the door the manager hit her across the head with a lead pipe and kept hitting her in the head, torso and groin, and on her arms when she tried to protect herself. Sforza told Amnesty International that other staff and customers were cheering and yelling “kill the fag.” One of Sforza’s friends called the police, but when they came she says they refused to listen to her side of the story and arrested her after the manager claimed she had assaulted him. Sforza reports that officers verbally abused her, refused to allow Emergency Medical Services personnel on the scene to examine her injuries and denied her access to diabetes medicine essential to her wellbeing while she was detained overnight. Amnesty International is concerned that the alleged violations in this case may constitute discriminatory behavior, torture or other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, false arrest, failure to exercise due diligence, and denial of access to justice. Amnesty International’s Stonewalled report, released in September 2005, documented numerous incidents of alleged inappropriate police responses to violence against transgender persons and found that transgender people are at heightened risk of police abuse. The report found that police officers often do not respond appropriately to “hate crimes” in which a transgender person is the alleged victim. This includes failure to properly investigate and document the “hate crime” as well as sometimes blaming the victim and even arresting or threatening to arrest the victim of the “hate crime.” “This is about accountability and this is about justice,” said Heflin. “The NYPD has a choice — it can show it cares about ensuring justice for all people, or it can turn a blind eye.” # # # To view Amnesty International’s 2005 report Stonewalled: Police Abuse and Misconduct Against Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender People in the U.S., please visit: www.amnestyusa.org/outfront/stonewalled Bathrooms General News Media Violence Bathrooms: Amnesty International on the Sforza incident Thanks to MHB message board regular Veronica for linking to an op-ed piece in the North Country Gazette, an Upstate New York newspaper, on the bathroom issue.  The article takes a skeptical viewpoint on transgender rights, but unlike some of the nastier knee-jerk right-wing blogs, doesn’t stoop to crass insults. Most of the concerns expressed by the author, Tom Chandler of the New York State Tyranny Response Team, are understandable for someone who knows nothing about transgender rights.  They’re phrased in the form of questions to New York State gubernatorial candidates.  I have no idea whether any of the candidates will read them or respond to them.  I’m not running for governor (although I encourage you to vote for Malachy McCourt), but I’ve got answers to Mr. Chandler’s questions. Will men who feel they are really women now have to get sex segregated jobs such as rape crisis counselor, (there are still jobs even progressive women argue should be for women alone)? Will you ever be able to deny a man is woman enough to do a job that he feels proves he is a real woman? There is in fact an example of a transwoman in Vancouver who wanted to become a rape crisis counselor, but was denied, and in fact, the trans community is not unanimous in believing that she has an automatic right to any such job.  Some of us do recognize the role of socialization and childhood experiences.  But this is a slippery slope argument, and without much more evidence, I don’t accept the idea that outlawing harassment of transpeople in bathrooms will lead to a flood of demands for justifiably sex-segregated jobs. How does one train a child to be wary of female strangers, who might actually be men disguised as women, without being hateful and teaching ‘intolerance'[?] Coincidentally, I just happened to be reading about the horrible Moors Murders (warning: graphic descriptions of violence) that took place in the English Midlands in the 1960s.  The murderers were a couple named Ian Brady and Myra Hindley.  While Brady committed most of the violent acts, at least the first three of the five victims were kidnapped by Hindley, a non-trans woman.  The linked Wikipedia article says of the second victim, John Kilbride: Like many children, he had been warned not to go away with strange men but not about strange women. I think that answers Chandler’s question: why not teach children to be wary of all strangers, male and female?  Female strangers don’t have to be men or transsexuals to be murderers or rapists. What will the schools have to teach your children and grand children about transsexuals? That they’re human beings deserving of respect, I hope. Does presenting men who express as women to children as abused and mistreated people that one should be sympathetic too, encourage predators to pass as transsexuals? Apparently not.  Transsexuals people have been presented in a sympathetic light (at least part of the time) for many years, and not one predator is known to have attempted to pass as a transsexual.  Predators don’t seem too fazed by segregated bathrooms, and just march right in in their guy clothes and attack whoever they want. In fact, they seem to appreciate a place where they can find women isolated for their convenience. How much does one have to ‘express gender’, plastic surgery, hormone shots, and cross-dressing and make up? Women’s shoes, or tight jeans and top, or are uni-sex clothing and an attitude enough to qualify for preferential treatment? I’m not sure why Chandler feels that the right to pee is preferential tratment, but my understanding of the New York City law is that there is no standard for gender expression.  It is entirely the choice of the pisser as to which bathroom they prefer.  I’m not even sure that they have to identify as transgender, transsexual or anything else. You are male traveling or shopping with you daughter or granddaughter and two slight young men dressed somewhat uni-sex follow her into what may be an other wise empty ladies room, or woman’s changing room. You can try to talk to her from outside the door, but you are not dressed to go in. If you do and the she-males have done nothing (yet), will the law be on their side that your bigotry has you harassing them[?] Yes.  Why wouldn’t your first assumption be that these “men” need to pee?  If you can talk to your daughter or granddaughter, couldn’t you continue talking to her to make sure she’s safe, and only go in if she sounds like she’s in danger?  What would you do if you saw an obviously drunk or insane woman who looked dangerous following your daughter into the bathroom?  Maybe an end to gender-segregated bathrooms is the solution. How will you warn your young co-ed about keeping her guard up when she is at school with friendly young men she might meet at a bar or party, who are ‘expressing’ themselves as women, without being seen as a well-meaning bigot to be ignored? How about just generally teaching her to take care of herself and not put herself in compromising situations with anyone she doesn’t know well? Do we still regard ‘peeping Toms” and men who collect stolen women’s underwear as potential rapists? What happens when we encourage such men to express as women, for a near free pass to indulge their vices? I disagree with the premise that bathroom rights represent “encouragement” to express as women.  If it is, on any level, as my Nexis search showed, none of them have been encouraged.  Like most of the right-wing fearmongers, Chandler doesn’t seem to be aware that the law guaranteeing equal rights to bathrooms has been on the books for several years in New York City, and largely respected by the NYPD, and no peeping tom or panty raiders have been “encouraged” in that way. When do we become hate filled villains for having such concerns? Good question!  It started when you stopped seeing transpeople as human beings who sometimes just need to pee, shit and wash their faces, and deserve a minimum of respect.  It continued when you expressed no desire to understand why we would be willing to risk harassment, arrest or violence in order to present as our target gender. Should we be informed enough to know to ask such questions, and to expect an answer before we elect a candidate for governor who may be a strong influence on this issue, one way or another? Or does this continue to be allowed to slip in under the radar until it is too late to have any influence? Absolutely the first.  If the trans community were interested in slipping our agenda(s) in under the radar, do you think we’d really have had a rally outside of Grand Central Station and invited the press? In fact, you should be so well-informed that you learn that for whatever reason, peeping Toms, rapists and child molesters just don’t seem interested in presenting as women. That’s all the questions that Chandler had.  But I’ve got a little more to say on the “hate filled villains” issue.  Chandler’s photograph shows that he’s a black man, and that reminded me of another time when his ancestors were similarly seen as predators and potential rapists.  That portrayal was used to justify discrimination, segregation, harassment and much, much worse (warning: more graphic descriptions of violence).  I think at this point we all agree that the authors of the Jim Crow laws and the leaders of the lynch mobs were in fact hate-filled villians, right? Articles Bathrooms Media Bathrooms: Tom Chandler’s Questions First FreeRepublic, then Drudge; now WorldNetDaily has run a story on the Grand Central bathroom agreement.  What’s next, Michelle Malkin?  Jonah Goldberg?  The blog “Good As You” has a post covering most of the errors in the article.  I’ve only got a couple of things to add. First of all, I’ve read WorldNetDaily before, and I’m aware it’s not exactly the pinnacle of journalistic ethics and style, but still, if you’ve read the Daily News and New York Post articles I’ve linked to in previous posts, it’s obvious that the quotes are all taken from one or the other of the articles.  Yet the WorldNetDaily article gives these newspapers absolutely no credit for the work they did of interviewing Helena Stone and the three “woman-on-the-street” subjects, not even a link.  That’s called plagiarism, and it would earn a failing grade if any of my students turned it in. Second, to expand on the point made by the Good As You blogger, I’ve been in both men’s and women’s bathrooms in Grand Central Station.  My memory’s a little hazy, but I’m pretty sure that, unlike some public bathrooms (Rockefeller Center, for example), the partitions between toilet stalls are floor-to-ceiling.  The fact that these particular bathrooms have been a focus of paranoia is especially bizarre given that they actually have more privacy than your average bathroom.  They also tend to be well-trafficked at all hours of the day and night. I do have to give the WorldNetDaily “exclusive commentator” credit for giving background on the harassment that Stone experienced at the hands of the MTA Police, so that the idea of sensitivity training doesn’t seem like some knee-jerk liberal response. Articles Bathrooms Media WorldNetDaily rant completes right-wing attack trifecta on Grand Central bathroom issue I was hoping not to have to write this post, but recently I’ve noticed a tendency for some transpeople to dismiss stories of transgender regret.  I’ve seen a couple of blog posts that attribute regret concerns primarily to “people who think transition is bad,” and criticize regretters who claim they were deceived.   I don’t think there’s any malice intended, but it’s not a good thing. A lot of transgender politics is based on the idea that MTF transpeople are women, and FTM transpeople are men, and thus that anything that interferes with transition is thwarting their destinies, and amounts to a crime against nature.  Figuring out which gender-variant people are “really trans” and thus deserving of this categorizational boost is tricky, and the subject of endless flamewars, but what seems to matter most are action and intention: if you live full-time or have concrete plans to do so in the near future, a lot of transpeople will admit you to the club. (As an aside, I have a fairly fluid, Roschian definition of “man” and “woman” that seems to please nobody but me: I believe that everyone is a woman in some ways and a man in others, and everyone’s balance varies.  It’s not even the same for a single person from day to day.  I just want to go on record that I am not interested in denying anyone’s claim to be either a man or a woman.  What bothers some transpeople is that I’m also not interested in helping them to repudiate their categorization in the other gender.) What causes a bit of a problem for the transgender worldview is that there are people who were once considered “really trans,” went all or partway through transition and became dissatisfied and regretted transitioning.  There is a range of actions in response to this regret, just as there is a wide range of actions in response to transgender feelings.  If they can manage and/or afford it, some will have surgery to undo or reconstruct as many of the body modifications they’ve done.  Others will quietly share their feelings with their loved ones.  Most people seem to be somewhere in the middle.  No one knows how many cases of regret there are (Principle One), but I personally know of at least five, and there have been others documented by David Batty of the Guardian.  Five people have recently come forward to accuse English gender psychiatrist Russell Reid of encouraging them to transition and have body modifications that they later regretted.  (For balance, you can read testimonials from some of Dr. Reid’s satisfied patients.) It’s understandable that many transgender activists feel uncomfortable about regret stories and try to distance themselves from them.  After all, these stories are often used by religious “ex-gay” organizations to argue that transpeople should all detransition, hide in the closet and repress and deny their transgender desires.  But there are other options beside repression and destiny. I believe that transpeople cannot make a truly honest, balanced decision about transition without considering regret cases and whether these cases might apply to them.  The fact of the matter is that there’s a tremendous amount of misinformation out there about transgenderism, from both sides, including junk science, opinion masquerading as fact, confusion of passability with essence, and the feeling-action bait-and-switch.  Mental health professionals command a great deal of respect, and most of them take that trust seriously, but I’ve heard too many stories about gender specialists who diagnose someone as a “woman trapped in a man’s body” on the basis of a cursory examination. I think I owe a lot of my stability to the fact that the second transgender story I heard was in fact a regret story.  In the town I grew up in, there was a person who went through a difficult time with gender.  The basic facts have been confirmed: this was someone who was born male and transitioned to female when I was in high school in the 1980s, but has been living as male for at least the past ten years.  The details were always sketchy to me: I could swear that I heard that he had de-transitioned and re-transitioned at least twice.  But I was deep in the closet and couldn’t muster the courage to ask about it, so I had to rely on what I overheard.  Regardless of how many times he de-transitioned or how many operations he had, the important thing is that he de-transitioned at least once of his own volition and is now living in his originally assigned gender.  I knew that fairly early on, and made the decision that I didn’t want to take any unnecessary risks and wind up with body modifications I didn’t want. I sometimes wonder if transpeople would be so quick to dismiss regret stories if they’d actually met someone who regrets transitioning or body mods.  I recently met a man who told me that a few years ago he got carried away in a midlife crisis and took black market hormones for long enough to develop breasts.  At one point he flipped them up with a small flick of his wrist through his baggy sweatshirt and remarked with a frown, “I’m going to have to get rid of these at some point.”  Sure, he made a stupid mistake, and he was the first to admit it.  But I couldn’t look him in the eye and tell him that he wasn’t misled either, or that his predicament wasn’t a serious one. Anyone who knows me knows I’m no fan of repression, but for those who don’t know me it probably bears repeating: I don’t believe that transition is always a bad idea, and I think it’s almost always better to be out of the closet.  I’m not some religious nut telling everyone to deny their nature and pretend to be Ward Cleaver.  I’m just a believer in careful decisions.  I want my transgender brothers and sisters to be happy and fulfilled, and that means not anguished and repressed or sad and regretful. Because of this, I think every transperson should read at least one regret story.  There are plenty in the Guardian articles linked above, and even on the Recovery Resources website, if that’s your taste.  But one that I think is particularly well-written is the story of James “Cora” Birk.  Be safe, and take care of yourselves. Actions Articles Categorization Why regret matters I’ve mentioned before that the right-wing blogs seem mostly to be responding to Pete Donohue’s Daily News bathroom article, instead of Clemente Lisi’s more sensitive Post article or any of the others.  This is a bad thing, and I wouldn’t be at all surprised if it were intentional on the part of Drudge and FreeRepublic.  I think I’m going to have to dissect the article to show just how badly it portrayed the issue: The line for the girls’ room just got longer. If it did at all, it probably wasn’t to the extent that anyone would notice.  But it’s a cute lead-in, and was taken as a serious point by many bloggers, who were apparently unaware of the Bathroom Parity law passed last year. Men who live as women can now legally use women’s rest rooms in New York’s transit system under an unprecedented deal revealed yesterday. They already could.  The deal just ensures that the MTA Police (who patrol Metro-North and Long Island Rail Road stations, not the subway) will commit to following the law. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority agreed to allow riders to use MTA rest rooms “consistent with their gender expression,” the Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund announced yesterday. The group filed a complaint against the MTA on behalf of a 70-year-old telephone repair technician who was arrested for using the women’s room at Grand Central Terminal. The technician, who is assigned to the terminal by Verizon, was born Henry McGuinness but now goes by Helena Stone. “I’m a 24-hour woman,” Stone declared proudly. “I just feel like a woman and I like to wear women’s clothes.” The MTA would not comment on the settlement but Stone’s lawyer said it also includes mandatory transgender sensitivity training for MTA employees and a $2,000 payment to the technician for legal fees. Just the mention of “sensitivity training” pissed off a lot of the right-wing bloggers.  Note that Donohue didn’t mention the extent of the harassment Stone endured at the hands of the MTA Police, which was described by Lisi.  Some of the bloggers might have understood the point of the training if they’d read about Stone being repeatedly arrested, insulted and searched. Michael Sullivan, Stone’s lawyer, called the settlement of the complaint with the Human Rights Commission a “milestone” toward recognition of the city law that prohibits discrimination against transgender men and women. Stone’s lawyer is named Michael Silverman.  But a fake name may make it more difficult for vigilante Freepers to harass him. But some Metro-North riders at Grand Central yesterday were stunned by the ruling. “I would not like that,” said Gloria David, a retiree from Connecticut. “I have nothing against gay men or drag queens, but they can use the men’s room. I just don’t want to go to the bathroom next to a man.” Presumably Donohue knows that most of the people using the women’s room under the new law are not gay men or drag queens, but he doesn’t use the opportunity to point out David’s misconception. One rider feared predators might dress as women and lurk in the women’s room. I addressed this point in detail in an earlier post. But Rena Gantz, 23, a college student, shrugged off the settlement. “It doesn’t bother me because it is a reality,” she said. “If they believe they are women, they should be treated as one.” Interestingly, the one sensitive quote in the article was often left off of many of the reprintings by blogs. Articles Bathrooms General News Media Bathrooms: The Daily News hatchet job I follow some transgender activists on Twitter, and since I don’t subscribe to transgender dogma, I follow some “trans critical” or “gender critical” activists as well.  I don’t expect to agree with anyone completely, but I like to find some community with others.  Lately I’ve been disheartened by how much I’ve been disagreeing with all sides. What bothers me more than the disagreement is that the takes on transgender feelings and actions are so uninteresting.  The “gender critical” people are fighting to save “girls who believe they are boys,” while the trans dogmatists are fighting to save “authentic selves” from “conversion therapy.”  Many of the “gender critical” activists is that they’re only concerned about a recent increase in “transtrenders,” and don’t want to get in the way of transition for “people who are really trans.”  Meanwhile, some of my biggest fans get a hard-on talking about mythical “attractive HSTS,” who put all the big fat ugly hairy late-transitioning trans women to shame with their mutant femme beauty. I follow some therapists who livetweet transgender-focused mental health talks and conferences, and those all focus exclusively on people who transition.  For all these professionals, the thousands of people with transgender feelings who have decided not to transition, or have detransitioned, or haven’t decided whether to transition, seem to simply not exist.  The first time they encounter someone with trans feelings may be when they’ve decided to transition, but everyone reports struggling with feelings for years before going to therapy.  If the therapists only see them once they’ve made their decision the system is clearly broken, but nobody seems to acknowledge that. All this screaming and pontificating and triage is based on a common faith that you can divide the world into real men and real women – and many also agree that there are real trans men and women, and maybe even real nonbinary people.  But they all believe that these categories are fixed at birth, and transition is the exclusive destiny of the real trans people.  Even the Blanchardians who concede that “AGP” people may benefit from transition do it begrudgingly, with a sense that it goes against their true nature as men. As someone who practices skepticism and mainly wants to see people lead happy and healthy lives, all these faith-based debates and practices seem beside the point.  We could transition all the AGP fakers and misguided butch teens tomorrow, and never transition any of the attractive HSTS and true trans men, and as long as they all led happy, satisfied lives I wouldn’t give a shit.  Even setting aside the fact that these faith-based categories don’t correspond to anything I’ve seen in the world, I have actually seen people who would probably be put in the “not really trans” categories who were as satisfied as anyone with their transitions, and people who would be put in the “really trans” categories who struggled, doubted and detransitioned. I don’t second-guess anyone’s decision to transition or not, but I tell everyone that the most important criterion they should use when making their decision is which gender they can realistically envision as hosting the happiest, most fulfilling life.  In the end, everything else is bullshit, and nobody should consider transition without doing this basic visioning exercise. But when I go on Twitter or Reddit and see the same faith-based screaming and pontificating, I feel like I’ve walked into the Council of Nicea and everyone’s yelling about whether Jesus is the same entity as God or not, and all I want to say is, “wow, what do you think about what Jesus said about how if you only salute your brothers you’re no better than the tax collector?” I’m sick of hearing from people who already know it all and want to beat everyone else over the head with it.  I want to follow people on Twitter who care about everyone who’s feeling trans feelings, regardless of what stupid category they’re in, and who’s trying to help them.  I’m particularly interested in people who are finding ways to deal with these feelings without transition, but I’m really looking for compassion – and not just compassion for brethren.  I hope there’s some out there! Actions Articles Beliefs Beyond faith-based debates At the end of my recent piece on the Slippery Slope, I gave four recommendations that had helped me to keep my footing:  Don’t repress yourself. Invest in your masculine identity. Don’t invest too much in your feminine identity. Spread out your significant gender events.  Some of it reminds me a bit of the old “FIBER” principles articulated by Tri-Ess over thirty years ago. F – Full personality expression, in a blending of both our masculine and feminine characteristics. We do not wish to destroy our birth gender but to develop all our human potentials and be all we can be. I – Integration of our masculinity and femininity to create a happier, more complete person as we use our enhanced understanding of ourselves in our daily lives. B – Balance between masculinity and femininity in our total personalities. E – Education of crossdressers toward self-acceptance, education of our families toward understanding, education of society toward the acceptance of crossdressers as ordinary people with a special gender gift. R – Relationship – building in the context of crossdressing. I’ve never been to a Tri-Ess meeting, so I’m mostly going off of the summary on their website. The “Don’t repress yourself” and “Invest in your masculine identity” principles echoes the TRI-ESS ideas of Full expression and Integration. When I went to look up FIBER, the Tri-Ess website was down. The organization has been losing membership for years due to many factors, including their denial of membership to anyone who transitions or is not “heterosexual.”  The heteronormative standards were extremely problematic, as Harvey Fierstein illustrated so masterfully in his play Casa Valentina.  The restrictions on transitioning can justified by the different needs of transitioners and non-transitioners, but it certainly seems like the percentage of trans people who transition has grown over the past twenty years. One major difference is what constitutes a proper Balance between genders.  The Tri-Ess website doesn’t specify a particular mix, and the impression I have from what I’ve read over the years is that some people tried for a fifty-fifty mix, some went for the maximum feminine expression they felt their families and employers would accept, and others never chose a specific mix, just harboring a vague feeling that they wanted more feminine expression than they had. From what I’ve seen, to be satisfied with your gender situation it’s not enough to have any old Balance.  The balance needs to be heavily weighted to the gender you’ve chosen, and it takes some conscious work to maintain it.  If you choose one that’s fifty-fifty or weighted the other way – or if you pay lip service to Balance without setting a specific balance – you’ll be forever off balance. The other major difference is that I specifically recognize the contributing role of gender fog – wetting the grass on the Slippery Slope, if you will.  This is a very tricky point to make, because so much of activism is about empowering people by proclaiming the essential rationality of all.  How can you empower your group while acknowledging that you are not always rational?  But we have to acknowledge it, or we will continue to have unwanted, ill-considered transitions. This also gets back to the mission of Tri-Ess and its dwindling membership.  If Tri-Ess is restricted to trans women who don’t transition, but they have never informed their members about an important factor that can undermine their decisions not to transition, they have sown the seeds of their undoing. Actions The Slippery Slope Beyond FIBER Today I got an email from Christine Quinn, the first out lesbian speaker of the New York City Council, regarding transgender rights in bathrooms.  It concerns the recent arrests in the Port Authority Bus Terminal.  Statement by Speaker Christine C. Quinn: Transgender Arrests at Port Authority Bus Terminal   On October 3, 2006, Port Authority Police arrested three young transgender individuals at the Port Authority Bus Terminal for allegedly trespassing. In response, I wrote the attached letter to the Port Authority asking them to fully investigate the circumstances under which this arrest occurred.   New York City Human Rights Law makes it illegal to discriminate based on individuals â€œactual or perceived genderâ€ in housing, employment, and public accommodations. In my letter, I also made it clear that the Port Authority must fully investigate the circumstances of the arrest as well as claims of possible abuse and must initiate sensitivity training on LGBT issues for all Port Authority Law Enforcement personnel.  I’m very pleased that Speaker Quinn has taken action on this issue, and hopefully the other security forces in the city will take the hint and ensure that their personnel are familiar with the law. I’m disappointed, however, because I contacted her four weeks ago with regard to the transwoman who claims to have been assaulted by a McDonald’s manager in Quinn’s district.  I can understand if Quinn felt that the issue of three transwomen at a large public institution was a higher priority than a single-person bathroom in a restaurant.  But to me, someone getting attacked with a lead pipe (and then arrested) is a higher priority than people being arrested.  I hope she does something about this soon. Articles Bathrooms Update from City Council Speaker Quinn Cool, thoughtful post from a cop named Steve Douglas in Denver. This seems to have been getting a lot more commentary on blogs than earlier incidents.  Unfortunately, it’s mostly been of the hateful, fearmongering type.  Quite possibly because this story has been picked up by FreeRepublic and the Drudge Report. Which version of the story, you might ask?  Drudge and the Freepers often link to New York Post articles, which tend to be right-leaning and sensational.  However, in this case the Post story was actually balanced and sensitive.  Too balanced and sensitive for the right-wing bloggers, who have all linked to the right-leaning and sensational Daily News story.  Big surprise there. I’d link to more of these stories, but they’re so formulaic it’s downright uncanny: HEADLINE CONTAINING APOCALYPTIC PREDICTION OR ATTEMPT AT WIT Intro containing apocalyptic prediction or attempt at wit (whichever wasn’t in the headline, or both). Quote or entire text of Daily News article. Uninformed fear-mongering about rapists, pedophiles or peeping toms using trans status as an excuse to invade women’s bathrooms.  If the poster is a man, a tasteless joke about claiming to be a woman in order to peep at women. Vicious bashing of transpeople as “freaks,” “deviants” or worse. Blaming the liberals for letting society get to this point. Hm.  I’m actually wondering if the similarities in these posts are more than the simple result of these people all being raised with the same intolerant, small-minded viewpoint, and they’re actually being coached on this stuff.  If so, ick. Articles Bathrooms Media The bathroom issue makes its way ’round the blogosphere The most disturbing aspect of the negative reactions to the recent settlement between the MTA about the use of bathrooms by transgender people is the coalescence of a new “talking point” about transgender bathrooms: the fear that they will allow peeping toms, rapists and child molestors to enter the women’s rooms unhindered.  People seem particularly disturbed at the idea that the judgment as to which bathroom to use is left entirely up to the pisser.  Here’s a quote from the New York Daily News article:  One rider feared predators might dress as women and lurk in the women’s room. Jerry Fuhrman, “From On High“: If I choose to go to New York, have a few shots and beers, decide to “consider” myself a woman for the night, and camp out in the women’s restroom at the Ritz-Carlton to see what I can see, am I now protected by the law? I know where I’m going on vacation … Here’s a taste of the venom and hysteria in the FreeRepublic discussion thread, but then again, what do you expect from Freepers? Now, will any provision made for safety for “real” women who don’t want to be preyed upon by rapists and thugs dressing in drag to gain access to, literally, sitting ducks? Or do they have to just suck it up in order to appease the freaks? Actually, I was pleasantly surprised at the thoughtful and reasonable attempts to clarify the issue by poster Dukat.  I wonder how long Dukat will last on FreeRepublic; they have a reputation for purging posters who don’t toe the party line. The tricky thing about the safety argument is that, like all lies and hysteria, it’s based on a kernel of truth.  The sad fact is that women are disproportionately victims of violence and are less safe than men anywhere they go.  Everyone is more vulnerable when they’re half-dressed and peeing, shitting or grooming themselves.  Combine these two, and a public bathroom can be a very scary place for a woman.  Gossip isn’t the only reason women go to the bathroom in groups. Given this, it’s understandable for women like the anonymous Daily News respondant to feel threatened by the idea of anyone with anything male about them in the women’s room.  Add to this the fact that there are regular news items about “crazy trannies” who murder, rape and stalk people, and people get the impression that the transpeople in the women’s room won’t act like normal women. The issue of “security concerns” was even thrown in to a New York Post column last year on the economic effects of trans bathroom rights (oh the poor suffering corporations!) by the otherwise intelligent, trans-friendly and sophisticated (if short-sighted) Nicole Gelinas.  I emailed Gelinas to discuss the issue with her, and she shared these concerns with me in more detail.  I was moved to investigate the issue. I did a Nexis search for peeping toms in bathrooms and found over two hundred articles relating to the issue between 1995 and 2005.  Many used innovative surveillance technology, some drilled holes in walls or hid in the ceiling crawlspaces, some just marched right in or snuck in and laid in wait.  No cross-dressing.  Zero.  Zilch.  Nothing.  Two hundred articles.  Every major newspaper in the country.  Ten years.  Nothing. I then searched for child molestation in bathrooms, and, well, there’s some pretty horrible, sick stuff that goes on out there.  I could only take fifty articles and I had to stop.  However, all I found was private bathrooms, men molesting boys, or men just walking right into women’s bathrooms and molesting girls. In those fifty articles, covering ten years, I found one article relating to cross-dressing.  A cross-dresser walked into a women’s room and startled a girl, who screamed.  The police arrived, and the “victim” explained that she didn’t actually feel threatened, just startled, and when she actually thought about it, she didn’t mind the cross-dresser in the women’s room.  Both the girl and the and police agreed it was a simple misunderstanding, and no charges were filed. That’s it.  That’s all I found.  Two hundred forty-nine articles spanning ten years, covering all kinds of nasty crimes perpetrated by “normal,” non-transgender people, and the one case involving cross-dressing was a misunderstanding.  If you don’t believe me, go down to your library and do your own Nexis search. You could argue that these ten years covered a period where there was no law protecting transgender people, and that now that this law is on the books, all the peeping toms and pedophiles will take advantage of it.  Except that this law has already covered New York City for several years, and nothing like that has happened.  The settlement just confirms the MTA’s understanding of the law.  Of course, there have been enough high-profile bathroom-rights cases in the past that an enterprising voyeur wouldn’t need to wait for the law in order to claim transgender status.  But they haven’t.  My guess is that peeping toms and pedophiles just don’t do cross-dressing.  If they want to go into a women’s room, they’ll just go. I’ll write another post about how this affects me directly, but for now I’ll close with an excerpt from a post by Dean Spade: Anyway, what I wanted to tell you today was about how I was having this conversation on Friday with 2 of my co-workers about how I want to create safe non-gendered bathroom options here, and of course the safety issue came up. They told me that the bathrooms used to not have locks, but after there was an incident where a male client went into the women’s room and exposed himself to an employee, the locks were put on the bathroom doors. They said they thought that the memory of this incident might be an obstacle to my mission. They were telling me a story in which, clearly, the “w” on the bathroom door had not kept anyone safe, just as writing “womens” on a key that anyone can take to go into the bathroom won’t keep a potential perpetrator from accessing that space. Yet, the story was supposed to illustrate the idea that the gendered classifications of toilets somehow protects women from male sexual violence. Articles Bathrooms Media Violence The mythical transgender bathroom stalkers In my previous post, I discussed recent transgender-related bathroom events.  Now, to go back a little further, I wanted to mention two events that show how seriously some people take bathroom gender boundaries, and the lengths that law enforcement will go to. A fellow poster of mine on the My Husband Betty Message Boards related a horrible story.  Over ten years ago she was arrested in the “wrong” bathroom in her hometown, a large Southern city.  She was sent to jail and, upon her release, ordered to receive mandatory “aversion therapy,” namely electric shocks applied while she viewed gay male pornographic images. In February 2002, after protesting the World Economic Forum, transgender lawyer Dean Spade was arrested along with two friends for trying to use the men’s room at Grand Central.  Here is a picture of the riot squad that was mobilized to arrest these three transgressors:  After reading about this incident, I attended Spade’s trial to show my support, and was pleased when the judge threw out all counts within five minutes.  I got to meet Spade and his companions, and they seemed so physically non-threatening that the idea of all these cops waiting to arrest them is just silly. Articles Bathrooms More transgender bathroom background There’s been a lot in the news lately about the bathroom rights of transgendered people, particularly here in New York, and I feel the need to do a post about it.  Just to recap:  In July, a transgender person was attacked with a lead pipe in the McDonald’s across from the Empire State Building, by the store manager, for using the bathroom (with permission).  When the police arrived, they arrested the transwoman, not the manager.  The police have told the woman’s lawyer that “the case is closed,” and as far as I know, McDonald’s has not commented on the matter. The MTA just settled a lawsuit by a Verizon employee stationed at Grand Central Terminal, who was harassed by MTA police whenever she tried to use the women’s room. On October 3, three “trans youth” (an exonym) were arrested and verbally abused while trying to use the bathrooms in the Port Authority Bus Terminal.  A Port Authority spokesman said, “The police inspector is very concerned and is looking into it.” Update: this article in the New York Blade provides more details of the verbal abuse that the Port Authority Police laid on these youth, and how State Senator Tom Duane is helping to pressure the Port Authority to comply with the law.  The MTA settlement has been making the news, followed by the blogs, with some predictable responses by clueless bloggers.  Some of the articles are sympathetic, some not.  Here are a few examples:  First, a surprisingly respectful and sensitive article by Clemente Lisi of the New York Post. The Daily News is generally a little more clueful than the Post, so their insensitive take was pretty surprising.  However, it closes with a progressive, open-minded quote. The funniest quote was from a blog called Metadish: “Has anyone actually seen the bathrooms at Grand Central Terminal? This is like a giant step back for the transgendered community. Maybe next time you could lobby for some bathrooms that aren’t public health hazards.”  The other comments all fall into one category, but I’ve got a lot to say about that.  Rather than use “more…” I’m going to create another post. Articles Bathrooms Some Transgender Bathroom Background According to Metafilter, transvestite B-movie director Ed Wood does not have a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.  Hollywood horror and costume shop The Dapper Cadaver is running a campaign to raise money for the star.  Apparently, all you need is $15,000.  If, as Celebrity Stink (sorry for the ugly ads) reports, there are stars for George Lopez and the Olsen twins, the standards must be low enough for Wood.  Wikipedia has an extensive list of stars on the Walk of Fame. Articles A star for Ed Wood! I’ve got a new candidate for my list of twenty-first century geniuses.  Joining Malcolm Gladwell and Jonti Picking is Virginia Postrel, who I just discovered from an article in the October Atlantic Monthly, Superhero Worship. I did a little research to find out more about Postrel, which isn’t very hard since she’s all over the Web.  It’s not like I’m uncovering some hidden gem.  She’s a well-known, well-published writer, editor and blogger on politics and economics.  And honestly, I disagree with most of what I’ve seen from her on those topics.  Hey, I linked to Mike Huben’s Critiques of Libertarianism back in 1995! What I find valuable from Postrel is the clarity that she brings to the idea of glamour.  One fascinating point is the fact that the word “glamor” used to mean a magic spell.  The OED says that it came through the Scots language from the same root as “grammar,” so the meaning pathway was, roughly, grammar > learning in general > magical skill > magical spell > charming someone with looks and style. So far I haven’t read much more than the Atlantic article, but here are some choice quotes from it: If that sounds crazy, it’s because we tend to forget what glamour is really about. Glamour isn’t beauty or luxury; those are only specific manifestations for specific audiences. Glamour is an imaginative process that creates a specific, emotional response: a sharp mixture of projection, longing, admiration, and aspiration. It evokes an audience’s hopes and dreams and makes them seem attainable, all the while maintaining enough distance to sustain the fantasy. The elements that create glamour are not specific styles – bias-cut gowns or lacquered furniture – but more general qualities: grace, mystery, transcendence. To the right audience, Halle Berry is more glamorous commanding the elements as Storm in the X-Men movies than she is walking the red carpet in a designer gown. […] The superhero fans who wear costumes to comics conventions, buy miniatures of their favorite characters, or line up for artists’ autographs aren’t themselves glamorous. But neither were the Depression-era housewives who bought knockoffs of Joan Crawford’s gowns or wrote fan letters to Gary Cooper. And neither are the InStyle readers who copy Natalie Portman’s latest haircut or wear a version of Halle Berry’s Oscar dress to the prom. But all are acting on glamour’s promise. Glamour is, to quote a fashion blurb, “all about transcending the everyday.” The whole point of movie glamour was – and is – escape. […] Still, glamour is always vulnerable to those who love it. The more we’re drawn to a glamorous person, place, or thing, the more we scrutinize it, seeking to fill in the details – which ultimately destroys the mystery and grace. Someone will always look for the hidden flaws, the seamy side of the story. Hence the demand for gossip about Princess Diana’s bulimia or Jennifer Lopez’s romantic problems. Just in case I need to spell out what blew me away about this article: Postrel absolutely nails the feelings that drive my cross-dressing.  I feel “a sharp mixture of projection, longing, admiration, and aspiration” for attractive women, and I may not be glamorous myself, but like the superhero fans, Depression-era housewives and InStyle readers, there’s a part of me that has longed to escape from the everyday.  It reached a critical point when I started cross-dressing in 1982, but the longing has been with me for years. I love scrutinizing the glamorous to deconstruct their artifice, but as a well-known fictitional practitioner of magic said, “He that breaks a thing to find out what it is has left the path of wisdom.” In response, you could argue that our ultimate goal is not to find out what it is, but to free ourselves from the spell.  After all, it’s pretty clear that for the Gables and Spearses of the world, achieving glamour doesn’t bring happiness, or even a real escape from whatever our everyday lives are.  So why are we wasting our time longing for something that’s almost by definition not going to bring us fulfilment?  And how can we stop? In that case, the spell is the longing, and the solution is to find out what we’re really longing for.  What do we really feel a need for when we’re envying women with pointy shoes?  What everyday horror are we really trying to escape from? Articles Glamour Postrel on Glamour (Originally posted January 24, 2004) From the moment I first slipped on a pair of my sister’s nylons when I was eleven years old, I knew that my cross-dressing was a shameful, dangerous practice, and that people would rather that I kept it secret.  When I was twenty-four, I decided that I was tired of hiding, and I just wanted to be able to be who I was.  I wanted to be able to join in the conversation when I heard women talking about clothes, not turn away.  Mostly, I just wanted to stop feeling ashamed. In the winter of 1995-96, I was living in New York in an apartment I shared with an old friend.  In the previous two years, I had come out to two gay male friends, two girlfriends, my father, my apartmentmate, one bisexual friend, and one straight male friend. Everyone had been relatively accepting and supportive, so I decided to come out to the rest of the world.  I had decided to post to transgender newsgroups under my real name, and I knew that it was impossible to hide that.  I had started carrying a picture of myself cross-dressed in my wallet.  I knew that at some point I would have to come out at work. My work then consisted of temping for Vanstar, an outsourcing company at the offices of American Express.  We were working for American Express, but we were twice removed from most of the benefits of being actual American Express employees.  The American Express employees resented us for taking their jobs, and the Vanstar employees looked down on us for being temps.  But the money was decent, and it was good experience. One day I saw a flyer for a volunteering fair in the cafeteria and decided to attend.  The idea was to encourage American Express employees to volunteer for various community organizations.  I had been volunteering for a couple of organizations already, but I liked volunteering, and wanted to see what was there.  I went from table to table gathering brochures, and at one table a guy who worked on the same floor recognized me and said to the guy sitting next to him, “Angus doesn’t belong here, he’s Vanstar.”  He was probably kidding, but I wasn’t sure.  His friend said, “That doesn’t matter!  Everyone can volunteer.”  I asked what kind of volunteering they did, and he mentioned a few things including AIDS education. I looked at the table more closely, and I realized that I had been shuffling along with my head down, and I was at the table of the organization for gay and lesbian American Express employees.  I felt a slight panic: I had overcome most of my adolescent homophobia, but I was still a bit afraid of people thinking that I was gay.  The guy who didn’t work on my floor introduced himself as Charlie, said that he was the chair of the group, and gave me his card.  I mumbled something and moved on. A few days later, I felt guilty for stopping at the table.  Would they think I was a closet case, or not really interested in volunteering?  It seemed important to me to clarify things, so I pulled out Charlie’s business card and gave him a call.  I even went to a phone in a hallway away from my desk so that people wouldn’t overhear.  I thanked him for his card, and explained that I wasn’t actually gay, but a transvestite.  He only missed one beat and said that I was still welcome to participate in the group, and that they had lunch in the cafeteria every Tuesday. At that point I had found myself eating alone more often than I liked, so I decided to join the group’s lunches.  I ate with them fairly regularly.  I don’t remember anyone but those two being at lunch, but they were fun to lunch with.  And the guy who worked on my floor was always friendly to me after that. Sometime later I was chatting with another temp who was leaving that day for a permanent job at another company.  He mentioned something about cross-dressing, so I decided to come out to him.  I told him, and he said he didn’t believe me, so I offered to show him a picture.  When he saw it, he was impressed, and didn’t seem upset or angry in the least.  I had figured it was relatively safe to come out to him since it was his last day.  Little did I know that the temp agency representative would organize a happy hour in his honor that evening. And I forgot what a big mouth he had.  At the happy hour, he called me over and asked me to show my picture to a co-worker.  A little while later, another co-worker.  And then one of those co-workers asked me to show my picture to a third.  By the end of the happy hour, most of the Vanstar people had seen that picture. The best part about it was that almost none of them seemed to mind it!  I found out later that my departing co-worker who started it all had been telling people that I was a female-to-male transsexual, but clearly everyone knew he was joking.  They all said I looked good, and that they couldn’t tell from the picture that I was a man.  Many of the women said that they were jealous of my legs.  Only one guy said he was uncomfortable about it, but he made it clear that he respected me and my right to live as I chose. Of course some of them found it amusing.  Cross-dressing is often a very ridiculous activity, and we cross-dressers should be the first to admit it.  That doesn’t mean that it’s not a serious thing for us, or that we deserve to be mocked.  It just means that no one should take themselves too seriously.  The important thing is that my co-workers weren’t mean about it. I was still a little worried the next day, but everyone was just as friendly and supportive about it for the rest of my assignment there, which lasted several more months.  I didn’t consider it appropriate to come to work cross-dressed, but I felt free to talk about crossdressing when the topic came up.  Every once in a while, usually at a happy hour, someone would ask to see the picture.  I chatted about nylons with the temp agency rep.  The only environments I could imagine being more supportive would be explicitly gay-oriented workplaces such as advocacy organizations, or in gay-dominated fields like fashion. Since then, unfortunately, I’ve remained out on the Web, but I haven’t felt so comfortable being out at work.  The next two big corporations I worked for, the Capital Group and Chase Manhattan, were not as gay-friendly as American Express (although Chase is the closer of the two).  But I think the main factor was that I didn’t have a big-mouthed friend to tell the entire happy hour crowd about my picture. Later on I began to think about the difference between being out of the closet and being in-your-face.  At what point do people have a legitimate right not to know about their co-workers’ quirks?  If the guy three cubicles down loves to have anal sex with his wife, I am the first to say that it’s respectful, consensual sex and shouldn’t be condemned or prosecuted.  But do I need to be informed and show support about his particular practices?  I’d say not.  So for a while I kept cool at work about my cross-dressing, although I didn’t take my web page down. I think that the case of crossdressing is different in part because of what’s at stake.  We may think that anal intercourse is icky, but at least in large urban areas it’s well-known that some people do it, and no one seems to resent heterosexual couples who do.  But cross-dressers and other transgendered people, especially minorities and prostitutes, are routinely harassed and intimidated, and occasionally beaten and killed.  Our entire community lives in fear and shame, which cannot be said for the community (to the extent that it is a community) of heterosexuals who practice anal sex. What will ultimately overcome that fear and shame is acceptance, and the best way to gain that acceptance is by being out of the closet.  The more people are aware that they know a transvestite who happens to be a pretty nice guy, the less likely they’ll be to harass, bash or kill transgender people, and the less likely they’ll be to stand by and watch as a transgender person is attacked or killed.  The value of that acceptance is so high that it’s worth making a few people a little uncomfortable.  What will change that discomfort into acceptance is if we do it with respect, and in moderation. P.S. After writing this article, I realized how well this reflected on American Express and the gay community, and particularly Charlie and the GLOBE organization at Amex.  Vanstar, which has since gone out of business, showed its gender politics when a married male manager was caught having consensual sex with a single female temp late at night in a storage closet at Amex.  The manager was transferred to another Vanstar account; the temp was fired despite the efforts of the temp agency representative on her behalf. Articles Personal news The closet Coming Out at American Express (Thanks to the members of the My Husband Betty message boards for helpful feedback.) Over many years of contemplating transgenderism, I’ve come up with a few principles that I’ve encountered over and over again.  Principle One is “No one really knows what’s going on.”  With so many closeted cross-dressers, stealth transsexuals, and people from all over the transgender spectra lying to themselves and to others, and lots of people who’d rather not hear about us, it’s very difficult to make any statements with confidence, or to believe any statements from anyone else. Recently, there’s some good news and some bad news regarding Principle One.  The good news is that there’s been an increase in funding for transgender research over the past few years.  Much of this funding is in the form of locally based studies in the context of research on the transmission of AIDS.  (I could write a whole article on the problems involved in that idea.)  Social service organizations around the country have gotten grants to study their local transgender populations, and have gone out, found transgender people, asked them questions, and published the results.  With the sometimes-generous support of the government and philanthropies, hard-working teams of investigators have collected large amounts of data, sometimes on only a small salary or even on a volunteer basis.  Just do an Internet search for transgender study and you’ll find a bunch of them. So what’s the bad news?  Unfortunately, a lot of this time, effort and money have been wasted due to poor methodology.  It really upsets me every time I read about one of these studies, because I want the same information that the study organizers want, and I know how caring and dedicated they are.  I hate the idea that they could have taken all that money and left it in a pile for the clients of their walk-in clinic and probably done more good. What’s the problem with the methodology?  Basically, it’s that they use quantitative methods – specifically percentages – when it’s not appropriate.  To understand why that is, we need to differentiate between two kinds of statements: existential and distributional.  Existential statements are ones that can be paraphrased as “X exists.”  Some examples are, “There are at least 50 self-identified transgender people in the city of X,” “Some male-to-female transsexuals are attracted to women,” and “Barry says he has had a recurrent desire to be a woman since the age of ten.” Distributional statements can be paraphrased as “X% of category Y are Z.”  Some examples are “Candidate X received Y votes for Mayor of Z, out of W votes cast in the 2005 general election,” “X percent of respondents agreed with Statement Y,” and “Most of the population of X identify as Y.” Existential statements are relatively straightforward: if you observe the existence of something, then you’re justified in reporting it.  Distributional statements are more problematic, and the problems have to do with population sampling and representativeness.  If you’ve counted the whole population (as in an election or a census) then you’re free and clear.  However, most social scientists don’t have the means to count an entire population.  Instead, they use the principle of sampling: if a distribution exists in a representative sample of the population, then it’s very likely that the same distribution exists in the population as a whole.  The key is the word representative.  Random samples are often used, but there are other techniques. There are plenty of sampling techniques that are not random, like posting a survey on a World Wide Web discussion group, standing on a street corner with a clipboard, or asking people to refer their friends to you.  Non-representative samples bring in the possibility of biases.  A famous example mentioned in Wikipedia is when a Literary Digest poll forecast that Alfred M. Landon would defeat Franklin Delano Roosevelt in the 1936 Presidential election.  That poll was biased because the sample was taken from lists of people who owned telephones and automobiles, and those people were not representative of the voters overall.  The editors of the Literary Digest were not justified in generalizing those distributional statements to the electorate as a whole, and thus failed to predict Roosevelt’s re-election. Unfortunately, almost every transgender study I’ve seen has made distributional statements based on a non-representative sample of their target population.  The usual pattern is that a social services organization will survey as many transgender people as they can find, ask them lots of short questions, count up their answers and trumpet the results as valid for all transgender people in the area, if not for all transgender people in the country or the world.  Since their primary contacts are usually with people who are in the process of a gender transition, poor, homeless, unemployed, mentally ill, promiscuous or involved in prostitution, they often wind up claiming that a large percentage of transgender people are transitioning, poor, homeless, unemployed, mentally ill, involved in prostitution, suffering from a sexually transmitted disease, or some combination of the above.  Every time I read those kinds of statements I wonder if the non-transitioning, middle-class, well-paid, monogamous, healthy transgender people I have regular contact with are some kind of anomaly.  I don’t think we are; I just think that neither I nor the surveyors are getting the whole picture. I feel bad calling out a specific study, but examples seem to really help when discussing this issue.  In March, the San Francisco Bay Guardian published the results of a study done with the Transgender Law Center, leading with this figure: What’s more, 59 percent of respondents reported an annual salary of less than $15,333. Only 4 percent reported making more than $61,200, which is about the median income in the Bay Area. This runs counter to my experience interacting as a out transperson; the only jobs I’ve had where I made less than $15,333 have been part-time student jobs.  Among my out transgender friends and acquaintances are some very well-paid computer technicians, and I’ve read plenty of articles about high-income transsexuals who haven’t lost their jobs.  This includes my experiences in New York and Albuquerque, but I know of some transpeople in the Bay Area who make more than $61,200 (and probably didn’t participate in the survey).  If you read the survey’s methodology, the sample of 194 was recruited from social service agencies and the Internet, with not even a thought of representativeness.  I know that the sample that constitutes my personal acquaintances is biased, but so is their sample.  Which is closer to reality?  Either one?  At this point we have no way of knowing. But we want to study the transgender community.  We want to do surveys, and some people are even offering grants for them.  So how do we do it right, so that we get reliable results?  Well, it is possible to get a representative sample – if you have enough time and money. One example of this is a large study funded by the Swedish Public Health Institute (Långström and Zucker 2005). A total of 5,250 randomly selected 18-74 year-olds from the general population of Sweden (N = 6,200,000) were contacted by mail as part of a large interview study of sexual attitudes, behaviors, and health in Sweden. … After subjects with language problems, severe visual or hearing impairment, long-term illness, or who had emigrated had been excluded, the remaining 4,781 individuals were invited to participate. A total of 59% (n = 2,810) of these subjects chose to participate in the survey. … Comparisons revealed no social, or geographic differences between participants and non-participants. In addition, cross-validation of interview data did not find general social desirability bias or untruthfulness in answer patterns, not even for sensitive sexuality-related data (Lewin et al., 1998). However, since elder individuals, particularly females, were underrepresented among responders, we included only subjects up to age 60. This yielded a final sample of 2,450 individuals (1,279 males and 1,171 females). This study has yielded very valuable data about the prevalence and correlations of transgender-related behaviors, even though it only contained one question relating specifically to transgender issues.  Of course, that question (“Have you ever dressed in clothes pertaining to the opposite sex and become sexually aroused by this?”) is itself problematic, and the responses to it have to be analyzed with that in mind, but the sampling is sound. What if your organization doesn’t have the budget of the Swedish Public Health Institute?  You could piggyback on a similar large-scale study of sexuality, preferably one that offers enough confidentiality to reach stealth and closeted transgender people.  Another possibility is to commission some kind of telephone poll, perhaps in combination with another study.  Official name change records, if used properly, may yield some information about people who undergo gender transitions. There’s no question that it’s hard to get a representative sample of transgender people, and it may take years before somebody’s willing to pay the money to do it, or until the world becomes safe enough for all the anonymous transgender people to come out of the closet and identify themselves.  We may just have to forego our desire to make distributional statements for a while. In the meantime, however, there’s plenty of interesting information to be found in the world of existential statements.  These methods, known broadly as qualitative research, can give you all kinds of insights into what people think, feel and do.  They just can’t tell you how many, beyond the number that you actually counted.  So if you find ten HIV-positive transgender people in your city, you can say that there’s at least ten HIV-positive people in your city.  You can’t give percentages or anything like that. In some ways, dropping the quantification requirements can actually be quite freeing.  It lets researchers actually get to know the participants as people, with stories, and the researchers. connection to the subject is usually an asset, if properly disclosed.  It leaves it to the reader to decide how typical these stories are.  There are two examples of qualitative transgender studies that I’d like to recommend.  One, The Man in the Red Velvet Dress (Allen 1996), is by a closeted cross-dresser.  The other, My Husband Betty (Boyd 2003), is by the wife of a trans person.  In both books, there is no attempt to make claims about the prevalence of various behaviors or feelings; the focus is on individuals and their stories.  (I liked My Husband Betty so much that I joined the message board that Betty set up on the book’s website, and got to know Helen and Betty and some of the other people whose stories are told in the book.)  If you want short examples before going out and buying a book, much of the work of Raven Kaldera, a female-to-male transsexual, is qualitative. Quantitative research can be very valuable even when it is possible to get a representative sample of a population.  One of its most important uses is to get a basic understanding of the issues involved in order to properly formulate questions for quantitative studies.  If you don’t know that there are women who get sexually aroused by wearing men’s clothes, how do you know to ask them about it when you’re doing that grand survey?  Agar (1996) has suggested that instead of two contradictory, or even complementary, approaches, qualitative and quantitative methods exist on a continuum, from the very formal, very broad, multiple-choice survey conducted by a distant, disinterested researcher to the informal, in-depth, free-form discussions conducted by an ethnographer who becomes a member of the community, if he or she wasn’t one before the study.  The qualitative, ethnographic investigations make it possible to have successful quantitative investigations later on. Maybe you’re thinking that nobody’s going to want to read a bunch of stories instead of some snappy statistics.  And nobody’s going to pay for you to go and hang out at Ina’s taking notes.  But it’s not necessarily true.  There’s no denying that percentages have a certain prestige, or that certain people involved in public health funding like to see quantitative work.  That doesn’t mean there’s no funding, though.  There’s a large number of social scientists who support qualitative research and are willing to recommend funding it.  My Husband Betty is currently in its fifth printing, and Helen’s presentations at transgender conferences are quite popular. So please, keep studying the transgender community.  And if you’ve got the money or the influence, please do a representative sample of the transgender population; it would be incredibly useful.  But if you can’t, rather than wasting time and money on more useless statistics, I hope that you’ll throw away your questionnaires and go do some in-depth interviews of interesting transgender people.  Or just observe. If you’re wondering how to do this kind of thing, read the writings of Helen Boyd, J.J. Allen and Raven Kaldera.  More generally, the linguist Melissa Axelrod has recommended the books by Agar (1996), Jackson and Ives (1996), and Rubin and Rubin (2004), and I found all three to be extremely helpful.  There are sample chapters on the website for Rubin and Rubin (2004).  My Husband Betty message board member Switchme has also recommended the book Quick Ethnography (2001) by W. Penn Handwerker.  Judging by Handwerker’s “Sampling Design” article (2005), he seems to follow the principles I’ve used in this article.  Switchme also recommends Analyzing Social Settings, by Lofland et al. (2005). Good luck, and if you do some good research, drop me a line. References Agar, Michael.  1996.  The Professional Stranger: An Informal Introduction to Ethnography.  New York: Academic Press. Allen, J.J.  1996.  The Man in the Red Velvet Dress: Inside the World of Cross-Dressing.  New York: Carol Press. Boyd, Helen.  2003.  My Husband Betty: Love, Sex and Life with a Cross-Dresser.  New York: Thunder’s Mouth Press. Handwerker, W. Penn. 2001.   Quick Ethnography. Alta Mira, CA: Walnut Creek. – 2005.  Sample Design. In Kempf-Leonard, Kimberley, ed. Encyclopedia of Social Measurement. Amsterdam: Elsevier. Jackson, Bruce, and Edward D. Ives, eds.  1996.  The World Observed: Reflections on the Fieldwork Process.  Champaign: University of Illinois Press. Långström, Niklas, and Kenneth J. Zucker. 2005.  Transvestic Fetishism in the General Population.  Journal of Sex and Marital Therapy 31: 87-95. Lofland, John, David A. Snow, Leon Anderson and Lyn H. Lofland.  2005. Analyzing Social Settings: A Guide to Qualitative Observation and Analysis.  Belmont: Wadsworth. Rubin, Herbert J., and Irene S. Rubin.  2004.  Qualitative Interviewing: The Art of Hearing Data.  Thousand Oaks: SAGE Publications. Articles Bad stats Good research Doing Transgender Research: Recognizing and Compensating for Limitations As I have time, I’m going to gradually migrate my writings from my old transvestite website to this new blog, revising and updating them in the process.  I’ll also write new articles as the muse strikes me.  Many of them will relate to this list of principles that I developed in 2005 and have been expanding since. For the past two and a half years I’ve been participating on the (en)gender Message Boards, moderated by Helen Boyd, author of My Husband Betty, and her husband Betty Crow.  It’s a really good group of people, with lots of interesting ideas about transgender phenomena, but over that time I’ve found myself saying a few things over and over again.  This page is written in part to save myself some typing on this message board; the next time one of these comes up I can just link to Principle 3.  Kind of like the joke about the comedians’ club. Right now I’ll just write a little blurb for each principle.  As time goes on I may expand them into full-fledged articles.  1. No one really knows what’s going on  Discussions about transgenderism are often full of generalizations: “Transgender individuals are like this,” or “Transsexuals are like this, but cross-dressers are like that.”  The fact of the matter is that nobody’s done enough research to prove this, so everyone’s going on hunches.  Unfortunately, hunches can often be wrong.  The bottom line is that nobody has information beyond the people that they’ve talked to.  Except in Sweden.  2. Sometimes it is sexual  Lots of TG people bend over backwards to say “Hey, we’re not perverts!  It’s not sexual for us!  We’re really women inside!” or “We’re expressing our feminine sides!”  And maybe it’s true for them. But it’s not true for everyone.  For me, personally, it’s sexual. That’s not to say that it’s exclusively sexual, or that cross-dressing is the equivalent of having sex.  It’s just saying that it’s sexual.   3. Beware of gender euphoria  Cross-dressing can be exciting in many ways, but there’s a certain kind of excitement that comes from cross-dressing in public. Something about having normal interactions with other people while presenting as the target gender can really make a transgendered person feel good.  The problem is that sometimes it can feel too good, so good that you want more.  TG people can get really carried away like this, and wind up doing things that they regret, like irreversable body modifications, or wrecking their relationships.   4. There are degrees of transvestite sexuality  This is kind of a follow-up to Principle 2.  Right after I admitted to myself that my cross-dressing was sexual, I felt bad about going out in public cross-dressed.  Then I realized that people are sexual in public all the time, and it’s not considered a bad thing, at least in certain parts of the country.  People flirt, hold hands, kiss and cuddle in public.  When I go out cross-dressed in public, the sexual aspect never gets more intense than that.   5. There is no one way to be transgendered  I have Jamison Green  to thank for this one.  It’s also been paraphrased by Helen Boyd as “There’s no right way to be trans.  There’s no wrong way to be trans.”  This is obviously related to Principle 1, but slightly different. Unfortunately, it’s all too common in the transgender community to hear statements invalidating one person’s transgender experience and suggesting that “real” transgenders do such-and-such.  To quote another transgender thinker, Flawless Sabrina, “We’re like snowflakes.”   6. Going out is not the same as being out  Recently there’s been a movement of cross-dressers to go out in public, usually shopping or to bars, and say that they’re “out of the closet.”  While it does involve revealing transgender status to at least some people, this concept of “out” is very different from the one used in the gay and lesbian communities, where it was borrowed from.  A gay man who holds hands with his lover while walking through Chelsea, but then tells his family, co-workers and neighbors that they’re “just friends” would not be considered out of the closet, and I don’t consider a cross-dresser who is only seen cross-dressed anonymously or in trans-safe spaces to be out of the closet.  The value of being out is to bring awareness of our humanity to those outside of our community: to show them that cross-dressers aren’t just freaks on Maury Povich, but friends, brothers, neighbors and co-workers.  Being seen as a random cross-dressed stranger on the street, in a store, or in a bar does very little for that kind of awareness.  If you’re not up to it, that’s fine; just don’t call yourself “out,” or you’ll piss me off.   7. Don’t judge the normal by the standards of the exceptional Just about anyone who’s had contact with the trans community has had the experience of meeting someone who’s a “great pass.”  Often there’s the idea that this person must “really” be a woman because she seems so feminine.  And maybe it’s true for some people.  But often what they’re perceiving is really physical characteristics (body size or shape, facial features, high voice), or skill (good actors, good mimics, good dancers, good with make-up).  And I think people wind up judging normal transpeople by the standards of these exceptional people, and believing that these normal people aren’t “really trans” because they don’t pass as well.   8. Experimentation changes you  I’ve often wanted to explore female roles, by interacting with supportive friends and my wife, and by going out in public, while presenting as a woman.  I figured it was a good way for me to figure out how far I wanted to go with things, and what kinds of things I wanted or didn’t want to do.  The problem is that the act of exploration and experimentation changes you.  Going out in public, going on dates, taking voice lessons, putting together a presentable wardrobe in addition to my fantasy one – all of those things changed who I was and how I related to myself, to gender and to other people. Some things I haven’t been able to go back on, some things have set me off in unexpected directions.  Some of it works through gender euphoria, some of it through other mechanisms that I don’t understand. It hasn’t all been bad, but it hasn’t necessarily been good.  So if you want to experiment, try to anticipate the consequences of experimenting. Articles Categorization Gender fog The closet Verbal Hygiene Some Transgender Principles In the wake of the Alliance Defending Freedom-sponsored bathroom bills being considered in many states, and passed in North Carolina, many people responded that there have been no documented cases of trans people assaulting women in bathrooms.  I may well have been the first to point out, a decade ago, the conspicuous lack of news reports of any such assaults. It’s important to be clear about what this fact means.  It means that a tiny minority of rapes happen in bathrooms, trans women are a tiny minority of the population, and a tiny minority of us are rapists.  A tiny minority of a tiny minority of a tiny minority means that there’s so little chance of this happening that it might as well be zero. Here’s what this does not mean: that trans women can never be rapists.  It does not mean that none of us has ever raped anyone.  It just unlikely, especially in a public bathroom.  There are a lot of other things to be worried about, like getting hit by a car on your way to the public bathroom. We need to be clear on this point because there is always a chance that at some point, someone will get raped in a bathroom by a trans woman.  In fact, there is a group of radical feminists who collect and circulate news reports of trans people harassing and attacking women and girls. These lists are not a systematic investigation of these issues, and they do not constitute a sound argument for banning trans people from women’s bathrooms.  The argument rests on exactly the same profiling fallacy currently being promoted by Donald Trump, Jr.  But the incidents are well-documented, and if we ignore them or dismiss them out of hand, we look like liars. In February 2012 a trans woman, Jessica Hambrook, was arrested based on reports that she sexually assaulted two women in two different homeless shelters in Toronto.  Psychiatrists, no doubt working in the sloppy theories of Ray Blanchard, “concluded Hambrook is not transgender.”  The Toronto Sun reported in February 2014 that she was locked up for life as a “dangerous offender,” based on guilty pleas in these cases and convictions in two previous ones.  They apparently considered themselves freed by the psychiatrist’s judgment from the responsibility to treat her with any dignity, and consistently referred to her with a male name and pronouns.  They printed a brief statement from the defense attorney admitting Hambrook’s crimes, but not addressing the question of her transgender status. When challenged on the Hambrook case, trans activist Toni D’Orsay simply took the word of the psychiatrists that Hambrook “falsely claimed” to be trans.  The rest of our “trans community leaders,” normally eager to defend one of their own and insist on the “correct” name and pronouns, has been silent on this issue, apparently unwilling to risk even the possibility that she is just as trans as they are, and might therefore taint all trans people with her crimes. This is bullshit – and it’s exactly the No True Scotsman fallacy.  Every population includes some people who are mentally ill, people who are sexual predators, and people who are criminals.  It is preposterous to think that trans people are somehow immune to this.  If this convicted serial rapist Jessica Hambrook is not “really trans,” there is a rapist somewhere who is.  We discredit ourselves by ignoring this certainty, and the radical feminists are simply attacking us with the weapons we have handed them. Articles Bathrooms Categorization Media Respectability politics Owning Jessica Hambrook There are a couple of good trans-related things that have happened to me in the past month.  They both relate to my business; in case you don’t know, I’m a computer consultant.  I’ve been hesitant about being out to my customers for a number of reasons.  The main reason is that it’s just not relevant to most of my business.  But sometimes things come up, and it makes sense to mention something trans-related.  The second problem is that I’ve built a lot of my business in my local neighborhood, and it’s a bit more conservative than Manhattan.  Even in Manhattan, though, I worry that transness (especially transvestism) may not be as accepted as homosexuality. There are signs that being out isn’t as difficult as I thought, however.  I know that one of my biggest customers was aware of my cross-dressing before she hired me, and I’ve come out to some of my other cutomers (who I knew were either some flavor of queer, or at least open-minded) with no adverse consequences.  And now, recently, two more things. The first is that I’ve recently become involved in LGBT business networking.  In June I joined the organization Out Professionals, and I was a little apprehensive at first, because all their materials just say “lesbian and gay.”  But I asked if it was okay to join because I was trans, and the seminar organizer said, “you could even be straight, and you’d be welcome.” A few weeks later I got an announcement from Out Professionals that one of their members is organizing a breakfast networking group here in Queens.  I went to the first meeting last month, and it was a really nice experience.  The other attendees were very friendly, and I got some promising business leads.   The next meeting is going to be on Wednesday, September 13 in Jackson Heights.  It’s still at an informal stage, so if anyone reading this is interested in attending, send me an email and I’ll send you the organizer’s email address. The other positive development recently is that I met another computer consultant who’s trans.  This woman is transsexual, around fifteen years post-transition, and has built a successful computer consulting business with several employees.  She tells me she doesn’t pass with everyone and she’s out to anyone who wants to know, but if any of her customers know she’s trans, it doesn’t seem to faze them.  They seem much more interested in getting their computers working. It’s reassuring to see this, as a counterpoint to all those studies that use questionable methods and claim to show that almost all transpeople are drug-addicted prostitutes or underpaid social workers.  It shows that there’s a middle way between the closet and poverty. Articles Personal news Some good work-related trans news I’m writing this blog because every so often I’m moved to write something about transgender issues, and people don’t seem to take plain ol’ websites very seriously any more.  It’s a place to post these things and organize them.  I hope you’ll find these writings interesting and useful. Blog news First post This is the eighth and final in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don’t want to.  I’ve focused on people who grew up as boys and feel a desire to be women, but I hope that some of what I wrote is helpful for people who grew up as girls and feel a desire to be men or nonbinary.  You can read the first installment here.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. Here, as promised, are a few strategies that I have developed over the years to keep myself relatively stable.  I can’t say they’ve worked completely for me: I’m further down the slope than I’d like to be.  I can’t promise they’ll work for you, but I hope some of you will find them useful.  Don’t repress yourself.  You’ll just resent it, and then wind up rebelling.  Only take the following steps if you agree with the reasoning behind them.  Do not deny yourself feminine expression without a good reason – like the following reasons. Invest in your masculine identity.  This is who you chose to be for the rest of your life.  You might as well get comfortable.  When you think about the future, make sure you spend most of your time thinking about your future as a man. Don’t invest too much in your feminine identity.  If you’re serious about not becoming a woman, don’t act like you’re planning to be one.  Don’t spend too much money or time or energy on your life as a woman, because you’ve already decided that it’s a dead end.  Don’t get in the habit of doing things that you can only do as a woman, or make friends who only know you as a woman. Spread out your significant gender events.  This may well be the most important strategy.  In my experience, the excitement of anticipation can last for up to a week before the event, and the gratification phase can last for up to two weeks after.  That’s three weeks of gender fog.  I tried scheduling my events at least a month apart, but that left only one week out of four that I wasn’t in some kind of fog.  I’ve changed it to six weeks minimum, and that feels much better. Actions Articles The Slippery Slope Keeping your footing on the Slippery Slope Here begins my catalog of woes. Please bear with it, because it has a point. 1. It was 1994 or 1995. I had just moved back to New York and was trying to figure out how to be comfortable with my transgender feelings. I had come out to my dad, and he had accepted them and agreed to let me live with him while I found work and saved up some money. I had also gotten over my adolescent homophobia and come to admire lesbians, gay men and bisexual people who were out and proud. I had heard about the New York Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center, and that they had a Gender Identity Project. I went to the Center one day and was directed upstairs to the GIP office, where I was greeted by a woman. She didn’t introduce herself, but I later recognized her in photos as the founding Director of the GIP, Rosalyne Blumenstein. “Can I help you?” she asked. “Well, uh, I’m transgender, and I wanted to know if you have any services for people who aren’t transitioning.” “We don’t really have anything for cross-dressers, but there’s an organization uptown called CDI, Crossdressers International. They might be able to help you. Here’s their number.” “You don’t have anything for people who aren’t transitioning?” “No, sorry.” “Uh, okay, thanks anyway.” I didn’t go to CDI. I muddled through with the support of friends and therapists who didn’t really know about transgender issues. I left the city for grad school in 1997, and came back in 2000. I was living in a rough part of the South Bronx. I had a simple need that I thought the Center might be able to help with, especially since they had become the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Community Services Center. 2. I went back to the Center and told the receptionist I was transgender, and asked if they had a safe place where I could change my clothes. She said, “No, we don’t really let anyone change in the bathrooms because they make a mess.” I thanked her and left, and was halfway down the stairs to the subway when I decided that wasn’t right at all. I went back upstairs and told the receptionist I was very upset with what she said and I wanted to talk to someone about it. She told me to wait, and after a few minutes a woman came out and led me back to a small room in the GIP offices. I explained the situation to her as she listened sympathetically, and then she told me that she didn’t have the power to change that policy because she was a counselor, but she would pass on my concerns to management. And no, there were still no other services available at the GIP for people who weren’t transitioning. 3. I eventually did go to CDI, and they were very nice and they did help me, but they were also very closeted and didn’t have much to offer someone like me who was largely out of the closet. They offered a safe place to change clothes, but their rates were way beyond my budget. 4. For a while I went to the transgender support group at Queens Pride House, but at one meeting another support group member told me I wasn’t really transgender because I wasn’t transitioning. The group moderator backed me up, but I felt stressed out rather than supported, so I stopped going. 5. In 2003 I made contact with Helen Boyd, who convinced Carrie Davis to get the Center’s policy changed to allow people to change clothes in the bathrooms. Helen also offered some support groups at the Center for trans people and their partners for a while. Helen and her now-wife Betty ran a message board that I found welcoming and supportive for a few years, but it began to attract increasing numbers of transitioning trans people who were not content to simply discuss their personal reasons for transitioning, but to insist that it was their destiny – and the destiny of every true trans person – to transition. This implied that people like me who don’t transition are either not truly trans or not transitioning. When I objected to this, Helen and Betty refused to back me up, and told me to stop challenging the destiny talk because it was making other people uncomfortable. When I continued, they banned me from the message board. 6. A few years ago I started going back to the Queens Pride House group, which has been more supportive. At the last meeting, there was a new member who insisted that I “hadn’t really decided” who I was or what I wanted. Several of the other group members, including Pauline Park, the moderator and a founder of Queens Pride House, challenged this new member on her behavior, but it was still stressful and not supportive to be attacked this way. And now, as I promised you, here is the point of this catalog of woes: To live as a trans person without transitioning is to be told constantly that you don’t belong, that either you’re not really trans or that you’re denying your true nature. If you object you’re ignored for as long as possible, and then called divisive and disruptive. Some trans people may say that they get that too, but at least they get a few safe spaces. Most services for trans people are entirely oriented towards transition, with a few exceptions that are oriented towards the closet. And the point of that is that when people like Julia Serano claim that people who don’t transition or who detransition are a tiny minority, and that many of us don’t even identify as trans, it may not have anything to do with what trans people as a whole really believe or want. It may simply be that there is tremendous pressure to not be a trans person who doesn’t transition, and that we’re being pressured out of sight, and even out of existence. Serano has been around long enough that she ought to know this, but acknowledging it might give ammunition to people who say kids shouldn’t be allowed to transition as soon as they say they want to, so she just sweeps it under the rug. Thanks! Articles Categorization Media My catalog of woes Every kind of sexuality exists on a continuum of intensity.  Partnered straight sex does not go immediately from sexless formality to orgasm, and neither does gay or lesbian sex.  In between there is fantasy, provocation, flirting, dating, touching, kissing and foreplay. The progression is not necessarily linear or inevitable.  People may feel conflicted or ambivalent, or simply not have a clear idea of what they want.  They may change their minds, or feel differently when circumstances change.  Fantasies go unfulfilled.  People flirt and nothing comes of it.  They kiss and don’t call.  They have sex but want to go back to flirting. There is also ambiguity and formality in sexuality.  People go through the motions to please a partner.  They kiss because they’re lonely.  They fool around even if they don’t feel like it, because they got all dressed up and don’t want that effort to go to waste.  They wear revealing clothing to feel admired or to be cool on a hot day, or because their other nice shirt was in the wash, or because it’s part of the dress code, official or unofficial. If you read some writings all the nuances go out of the window.  In these portrayals there is a linear progression from provocative dressing to flirting to kissing to foreplay to intercourse.  People either want intercourse or they don’t, and their feelings never change.  If they want it everything else is simply a series of hoops to jump through on the way. There are two kinds of discourse that erase all the nuances.  The first is erotica, because all that stuff about ambiguity and ambivalence can be a huge turn-off.  We want a little bit of a story, but not so much it distracts us.  We also want to be flattered, and too much nuance can muddy the picture. People also ignore these nuances when disapproving of other people’s sexuality. It’s okay for Us to affirm our sexuality with all its nonlinearity, ambivalence, ambiguity and formality, but the Others, whether they be gay men or lesbians, straight unmarried couples, straight masturbators or BDSM fetishists, are not allowed this level of humanity.  They are single-minded sex maniacs, monsters prepared to put their gratification before all else. I can testify to this from experience.  When I was a teenager I read and heard things about gay men that made me think of their sexuality as single-strength, either on or off, and I judged them accordingly.  As I grew up and my gay male friends came out to me, I saw the humanity of their sexual feelings and stopped judging.  (I also stopped judging other people in general, which was one of the best decisions I’ve ever made.) This isn’t to say that there aren’t sexualities that come with their own problems.  When people feel desire for children, or nonhuman animals, or people that they have power over, there is a real danger of abuse.  When people get obsessed with objects, or objectify other people or their body parts, that presents a barrier to the formation of true relationships.  When sexuality is connected to violence, there is the danger of that violence getting out of hand.  But we can’t simply say that everything and everyone associated with these problematic sexualities is automatically bad, or even criminal.  We need to treat them realistically, acknowledging their complexities and finding solutions to the problems they pose. I’m also not saying there aren’t bad actors out there.  There absolutely are, but they’re represented in all sexualities, and they’re a minority of all sexualities.  We need to keep this in mind, and remember that everyone deserves safety and compassion. Actions Articles Feelings Sexuality Degrees of sexuality This is the seventh in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don’t want to.  You can read the first installment here.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. Alongside all time, energy, money and focus that we invest in our feminine identities, appearances and activities, we often neglect of our masculine selves.  We may not have felt excited about living as a man, let alone comfortable with it, for years to begin with. Most of us don’t have the money to support two people, on top of whatever family commitments we have, or the time and energy to live two separate lives.  What we spend on our feminine selves is money, time and energy we don’t have for our masculine selves. In terms of personality, the skills we learn and the habits we develop as women can be hard to transfer to our lives as men.  Relationships that we develop as women may not carry over to our masculine selves. At some point on the slope, some trans women decide that transition is the best course of action for them.  Even if they had previously decided to live as aman, they may conclude at this point that it was the wrong decision.  They may well be right, but that does not mean they were wrong in their previous decisions not to transition.  What has happened is that they have changed from someone who was probably better off not transitioning to someone who was probably better off transitioning. It was the slippery slope, the dysphoria ratchet, that changed each of them over time.  Each significant gender event grew and developed the habits, the thought patterns, the relationships that formed her feminine identity.  As this new identity has been growing, the sunk costs have been mounting and she has been neglecting to make similar investments in the masculine identity that she had chosen to remain with. When the feminine identity is so small and undeveloped compared to the masculine identity, it is easy to reject or defer transition.  But if it gets to the point where the feminine identity is better developed, transition can seem more feasible.  If someone has spent a day or more as a woman, it is easier to imagine spending the rest of her life as a woman. Once a trans woman gets to the point where her female identity is well-developed, she may still choose not to transition.  But sometimes circumstances arise that can make her reconsider.  I have known, and known of, several trans women who chose to transition during a divorce or midlife crisis, or after losing a job, moving to a new place, or the death of a loved one.  When it feels like everything in our life is changing, why not gender too? Here, gender fog plays a role again.  Some trans women make a calm, rational decision to transition, but many decide to transition when their judgment is impaired by the excitement brought on by a significant gender event.  These events can also increase dysphoria, making the case for transition feel stronger and more urgent. This concludes the seventh installment of the Slippery Slope. You can read the next installment, or read on in the full article. Actions Articles The Slippery Slope The Slippery Slope: Neglecting the masculine identity The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment conducted a Healthy Kids Colorado Survey in 2015.  Ann Schimke of Chalkbeat reports that the survey shows that transgender teenagers in the state are more likely to plan or attempt suicide than their non-trans classmates. Unlike some surveys, this is based on an actual sample of 15,970 high school students in Colorado, with a 46% response rate. 2.2% of the kids (162) said they were trans, and 1.6% (118) said they were questioning their gender. 35% (57) of the trans kids said they had attempted suicide, and 14% (16) of the questioning kids said they had. The reported rate of attempted suicide for the other kids is 7%. That’s 53 more high school kids in Colorado who say they’ve attempted suicide than would have if they hadn’t been trans. I’ve got more thoughts on suicide, but the biggest thing is that we need to work on accepting kids who are trans. That doesn’t necessarily mean any body modifications. Just accepting would make a huge difference. I say that from experience. Articles General News Good research In Colorado, lots of trans teenagers think of suicide This is the sixth in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don’t want to.  You can read the first installment here.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. On the slippery slope, a trans woman’s feelings, actions and identity all work together in a ratchet mechanism.  One part of the mechanism is sunk costs.  Just an average woman’s wardrobe and grooming supplies can cost a lot of money.  Even if we don’t buy a complete wardrobe the expense is in addition to our men’s wardrobe.  If we are in the closet at all, we may pay to rent a separate place to store our clothing and change into it, or to join a club for that purpose.  Any specialized makeup, wigs or padding is additional, and training is on top of that. These can cost a lot; we tend to think of them as investments and want to get value from them.  I spent sixty dollars on a pair of boots last winter, and I was pretty happy once I found a chance to wear them. Time is another sunk cost.  We spend time on voice training, time practicing wearing clothes and shoes and walking in them.  Women on average spend more time than men on grooming; trans women often have to spend even more time on things like shaving and make-up. To save time, we may spend even more money on what Helen calls “soft body mods” like shaving or electrolysis.  We may try to avoid growing big muscles.  If we have a full head of hair, we may grow it long.  We may forego beards or mustaches because we don’t want to look conspicuous after we shave them off. Further down the slope, some of us get more dramatic body modifications, even if we don’t intend to transition.  Some people get facial surgery, others take “a low dose” of hormones to get small breasts. All of that money, all of that time, all the opportunities we’ve passed up are sunk costs.  They all whisper to us, “Shouldn’t we be doing more with this?  Nobody’s seen my legs yet this summer.  Those boots are just sitting in the closet.  I spent an hour getting my makeup and now I’m going to take a few selfies and wipe it off?” This concludes the sixth installment of the Slippery Slope. You can read the next installment, or read on in the full article. Actions Articles Feelings The Slippery Slope Sunk costs and the slippery slope I believe that President Obama, Attorney General Loretta Lynch and Acting Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta sincerely want to help all transgender people.  I commend their courage for doing what they think will help.  But I’ve read Lynch and Gupta’s remarks and read the brief that Gupta’s office filed in response to the North Carolina lawsuit over bathroom access, and I’m feeling worried.  Where do I, and all the other genderqueer and genderfluid people, fit in this?  Will we be left out? Paragraph 31 from the brief defined gender identity as ” gender identity, which is an individual’s internal sense of being male or female.”  Paragraph 36 states, “Gender identity is innate and external efforts to change a person’s gender identity can be harmful to a person’s health and well-being.” That’s great for someone who lives through childhood as a girl, transitions in high school and lives the rest of their life as a man.  It’s great for someone who lives as a boy and then a man, and transitions to living as a woman during a midlife crisis.  It’s especially good if they are comfortable interpreting their feelings of discomfort, desire and excitement in terms of innate brain genders despite the shaky science involved in those constructs. Paragraph 36 is less great for someone who doesn’t want to be pigeonholed into any gender, or for someone who feels like they’re in between, or a mix of genders.  It’s not so good for someone like me who sometimes feels a desire to be a man and sometimes a woman, who sometimes feels uncomfortable with on gender, or the other, or both.  It’s especially bad if we’re skeptical of any kind of pat answers, especially about gender. There is a straightforward case against North Carolina’s HB2 law: just as it’s illegal to deny a person public accommodations or require her to wear a skirt because she has the legal status of “female,” it’s illegal to deny a person the right to use the women’s room because she has the legal status of “male.”  It’s a pattern of sex discrimination. I can understand why Lynch and Gupta don’t want to use the straightforward argument, though, because it makes a bald-faced case that people should be allowed to use whichever bathroom they want, even if they’re not trans.  Gupta doesn’t think the American people are ready for that.  Instead, here’s how she puts it: Transgender people are discriminated against because their gender identity does not match the sex they were assigned at birth.  H.B. 2 denies transgender people something that all non-transgender people enjoy and take for granted: access to restrooms consistent with their gender identity. For years, whenever anyone talked about “gender identity” I just thought of it as some weird feeling that trans people who transition full-time have.  But then people started insisting that everyone has a gender identity, and that because I chose not to live as a woman full-time I must have a masculine gender identity.  They’re wrong; I don’t.  I just dress like a guy most of the time because it’s the easiest thing to do.  It’s not just me, either: I’ve known people who’ve transitioned and don’t have a gender identity. Nobody knows what my gender identity (or lack thereof) is unless I tell them, and yet they do occasionally discriminate against me, like when the woman in the Burlington Coat Factory on Sixth Avenue sent me to the men’s changing room.  She had no idea whether my gender identity matched the sex I was assigned at birth; she simply decided I was a man despite the fact that I was wearing makeup and a skirt, and discriminated against me based on her judgment. Similarly, the people who confront trans people for their choice of bathroom have no idea what gender identity their victims have.  They aren’t discriminating based on a gender identity mismatch, they’re discriminating based on their gender classification.  I can’t believe that on some level Gupta and Lynch don’t know this. I don’t want access to restrooms consistent with my gender identity, and I don’t think most other trans people do either.  I want access to restrooms consistent with my gender expression.  It’s pretty simple: if I’m wearing makeup and heels, I want to go into the bathroom where people with makeup and heels go.  If I’m not wearing makeup and have visible facial hair, I want to go into the bathroom where people with no makeup and visible facial hair go. I don’t vary my gender expression for fun.  I do it because through many years of experience I’ve concluded that my mental health suffers if I don’t.  My need is just as real, and just as unchangeable, as any other trans person’s.  I’m just not confident enough in my understanding of my own mind, or in the state of neuroscience, to assert that this is a result of some innate sense of self. So here’s what I want to know, Attorney General Lynch: if I don’t have a gender identity, innate or otherwise, and I’m not prepared to assert that my state is innate, do you still stand with me?  Do you stand with the genderqueer person who doesn’t really pass in any bathroom, and decides which is the safest on an ad hoc basis?  If I got arrested in a women’s room in North Carolina, in makeup and a dress, would you do everything you could to protect me?  Or is safe access to restrooms only for people with a gender identity? Update: Cristan Williams points out that the Justice Department is suing North Carolina because they received grants under the Violence Against Women Act that are conditioned on states not discriminating on the basis of gender identity.  But as I pointed out shortly after the Act was reauthorized in 2013, the definition of gender identity is “actual or perceived gender-related characteristics,” which is a lot more inclusive and effective than the faith-based definition.  So why are Lynch and Gupta using a definition of gender identity that’s so radically different from the one in the law? Actions Articles Bathrooms Categorization Media What if you don’t have a gender identity? This is the fifth in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don’t want to.  You can read the first installment here.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. In my observation, when a trans woman experiences one of the significant gender events I discussed in the last part, it can bring up a lot of feelings.  This can have a major impact on our gender dysphoria: each significant gender event produces strong feelings of anticipation, gratification and disappointment.  Each of these feelings by itself can produce peaks of dysphoria, and they are accompanied by an intense focus on the event that increases the baseline of dysphoria for that period. These events can be so significant that we get excited.  Very excited, as in unable to sleep for nights beforehand.  We can spend a lot of time thinking about the event: what to wear, where to go, what precautions to take.  We can feel frustrations with make-up, clothing, padding, wigs.  We can feel impatient with the lead time, and want to get it over with so that the event can start.  These frustrations, this impatience, feeds gender dysphoria. The events themselves can sometimes be disappointing.  The disappointment can come from interactions with other people, who may treat us like men, disrespect us, discriminate against us, harass us or even attack us – or simply not find us attractive.  Or it can come from not liking what we see in the mirror or a photograph, or how our clothes fit.  These disappointments feed dysphoria. The events can be gratifying: we can have our femininity, our status as women, our attractiveness confirmed.  We can simply have a good time.  But even that gratification can feed dysphoria, because we often want more.  If we have success, we want to build on that success.  The event can be a high, and then we can experience withdrawal afterwards. Whatever happens before, during and after the significant gender event, we spend a large part of that time focused on the event, thinking about what will happen, what is happening, what has happened.  Just the fact of thinking so much about gender and about our own gender presentation can increase the chance that we will feel dysphoria. Finally, this intense focus on the event can impair our judgment.  This is widely recognized by trans people, and I call it “gender fog.”  When we are in the gender fog, we often make decisions that we would not have made at other times, decisions that we sometimes regret later. This state of intense focus can begin up to a week before the significant gender event, and last for up to two weeks afterwards.  This means that for just one event we can spend as much as three weeks focused on gender expression, increasing our dysphoria, and with potentially impaired judgment.  If we have these significant gender events less than three weeks apart, we may be constantly in this gender fog. This concludes the fifth installment of the Slippery Slope. You can read the next installment, or read on in the full article. Actions Articles Feelings Gender fog The Slippery Slope Dysphoria, gender fog and significant events Everyone understands trans men.  They see a world where men earn more, have more power and more options, and in some societies have legal rights over the bodies and futures of adult women.  It seems straightforward to reject membership in an objectively oppressed class in favor of membership in a more powerful one. People also sometimes understand why someone would want the status of women temporarily, to hide themself or their power, even to trick someone else.  They have a much harder time understanding any other reason: why anyone would want to be lower-status, lower-power? In practice there are several reasons why people might want to be women, given the choice.  One I’ve never heard discussed is that when some of us first felt that desire, we lived in a world where women were powerful. When I was a boy, I woke up every day in a house owned by my mother.  I went to school, where my teachers were all  women, and so were the Cub Scout den mothers.  I went home and the house was often dark until my mom got home from work, because my big sister was still at school, in track team activities.  When we were younger she locked herself in her room, leaving me to amuse myself.  That was better than the times she insulted me or even pushed me around. There were men, but they didn’t have much power.  My mom had moved us a hundred miles away from my dad, and had a boyfriend who didn’t want to take care of us.  Later she threw him out and dated a guy who turned out to be a liar.  Some of my mom’s friends were nice, and so were our next door neighbor and my elementary school principal and janitor, but none of them had much responsibility for me. Even our cat, with her maternal energy, felt like an authority figure.  There was one point, in between my mom’s boyfriends, when we also had a female dog, so I shared the house with four females. Of course I knew that men treated women badly.  I saw it in the way my father ogled waitresses, and heard the contempt in his voice when a woman disagreed with him.  I saw it in the way boys chased girls in the elementary school playground.  I heard it from my mother and my sister and my mother’s friends. But I could also see my father’s loneliness after having rejected lots of worthy women and alienated all the rest.  I could also see that boys who chased girls, whether physically on the playground or metaphorically in bars and parties, were not much happier.  And it seemed that all the men I knew were in some way responsible for mistreating women, but at least some women managed to live free of guilt for mistreating men. In my teens, my mom settled down with a man who treated everyone decently and showed me new possibilities in life.  A few years later I spent some time moving in the world, being seen as a woman.  Not very much time at all, but enough to get a taste for how women are treated on a regular basis.  I also heard more from women about their experiences.  I decided not to live full-time as a woman. Once that decision was made, you might expect that I would no longer feel any desire to be a woman.  But I discovered that things were not so simple.  I continued to imagine myself as a woman, and occasionally to go out in the world as a woman. One reason is that it is difficult to live in our society in any gender, and deciding to live as a man did not wipe away the bullshit that we put on men.  And it turned out that once I had imagined that womanhood could be an escape from that bullshit, I kept thinking about it. It seems the habits of thought and action that I had begun when I was a teenager had gathered too much momentum.  If I tried to stop the actions, the thoughts kept coming back.  If I didn’t act on the thoughts, it felt like I was denying myself. You can be aware that women are treated as second-class, know about the bullshit women put up with, and still feel a desire to be a woman.  When you’re a boy of ten or eleven surrounded by teachers, mothers and older sisters, it can still look like an improvement. This is just one of the ways that our lives are influenced by decisions that made much more sense when we were kids. Articles Patriarchy A world ruled by women You may remember that Jos Truitt wrote a post about reclaiming the character of Buffalo Bill, the villain of Silence of the Lambs, as trans.  AntBreach responded, “If you want to reduce stigma against trans people, why would you insist one of cinema’s most gruesome horror villains was trans all along?”  As I said in my previous post, Buffalo Bill may not have been transsexual, but that just means he was a transvestite, which is still a way of being transgender.  And because the character was a caricature of transgender desire, I said on Twitter that he was trans the same way Amos and Andy were black.  The same is true for Doctor Elliot in Dressed to Kill. I still don’t like the idea of “reclaiming” Buffalo Bill or treating him as any kind of hero, even to the extent he reflects any kind of transgender reality.  But I do think we should own the very real trans person he was based on, Ed Gein. Ed Gein confessed in 1957 to killing two women and making (or attempting to make) suits and masks out of their skin, as well as skin taken from corpses buried near his mother in the local cemetery.  He was found not guilty by reason of insanity and died in an asylum in 1984.  His story is not only the basis for Buffalo Bill, but for Norman Bates in Psycho and Leatherface in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre.  We get three fictional serial killers for the price of one real killer. It needs to be said that Gein committed horrific crimes and is not a suitable hero or role model for anyone, anywhere, ever.  But that doesn’t mean that he wasn’t transgender.  He was, everyone knows he was, and we look like fools for pretending he wasn’t. AntBreach’s question speaks to a fundamental misunderstanding of how stigma works, one that is unfortunately all too common.  When confronted with a negative association, one response is to simply reject the association.  “Trans murderer?  Well, no, that person wasn’t really trans!”  This is bullshit.  It doesn’t work when cyclists, or Jews, or members of any other group try to whitewash themselves and pretend that they don’t have any murderers, or rapists, or bad people.  Everyone knows deep down that it is well-nigh impossible to have a group that big with no murderers, and on some level they see through the bullshit.  It’s the same thing with transgender murderers, rapists and plain old mean people. The case of Ed Gein (and the caricatures based on him) is particularly challenging because he wasn’t just a trans person who killed.  His crimes were colored by his transgender feelings.  They are transgender grave robberies and transgender murders.  But there are a lot of killers whose crimes are colored by their gender experiences and their sexualities.  Jeffrey Dahmer and John Wayne Gacy committed gay murders.  Gary Ridgway’s and Ted Bundy’s backgrounds as straight men colored their crimes.  Female serial killers tend to kill husbands, children or elderly people in their care. Gein’s transgender actions do not mean that the rest of us trans people are likely to commit those kinds of crimes.  Gein was also diagnosed with schizophrenia and psychopathy, and those of us who don’t have either of those are a lot safer to be around.  There is no evidence that murderers are any more common among the trans population than they are among the general population, and I haven’t heard of anyone else who has done what he did with corpses.  @grievesmith @AntBreach Much as he isn't representative of abused children, schizophrenics or Wisconsites. — Finn Darby (@FinnTD) March 12, 2016  The way to deal with stigma is not to deny negative associations, but to acknowledge them and move on, and drown them out with positive and neutral associations.  Why yes there are transgender murderers and rapists, but there are also brilliant transgender comedians, artists, composers, authors, film directors, computer programmers, scientists, teachers, athletes – and on and on.  And there are trans people who are not particularly monstrous or particularly brilliant, but are just people like Joe down the block who goes out once a month in a wig and heels, and Liz at the coffee shop who likes to wear neckties all the time.  There are trans people with enough love in them to drown out all the hate that people like Gein bring. So yes, Ed Gein was trans.  So are lots of people who aren’t murderers.  Let’s see some more movies about them.  Maybe some day we can even have a horror movie where the killer’s crimes aren’t colored by any transgender feelings  – but our pretty, spunky heroine is a transvestite. Articles Feelings Media Violence Owning Ed Gein This is the fourth in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don’t want to.  You can read the first installment here.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. A major factor in the ratchet mechanism is a desire for some kind of progress in our gender expression.  Some trans women have a routine that they repeat over and over again in exactly the same way for years, but many of us like progress.  Doing the same thing over and over again can get boring.  Like the model train collector who is always buying new pieces of equipment, or the singer who is always learning new songs, we like to achieve things.  What counts as an achievement is entirely personal, and specific to the circumstances at the time.  Sometimes it’s a new purchase, like clothing, shoes, makeup, wigs or padding.  For those further down the slippery slope it can be a new body modification.  It can also be a milestone in the development of a skill, or a social event like a support group, party or date.  These significant gender events are the most difficult part of navigating the slippery slope.  Without them we can feel like we’re denying and repressing ourselves, which can lead to resentment and rebellion.  But each significant gender event contributes to building the feminine identity.  It also comes with a temporary increase in dysphoria, and often with the short-term impaired decision making known as the “pink fog.”  The investment in our feminine identity and the increased dysphoria can in turn increase the desire for more frequent transgender expression. This concludes the fourth installment of the Slippery Slope. You can read the next installment, or read on in the full article.  On this topic, you can also read “Sunk costs and the non-transitioner” and “A Sundress for Sisyphus.” Actions Articles The Slippery Slope The Slippery Slope and the desire for progress Someone named AntBreach tweeted a post by Jos Truitt on Silence of the Lambs, a response to a Bitch post by Sarah Marshall.  Marshall makes some reasonable points about the movie, while criticizing the essential device driving the plot: the villain, Buffalo Bill, murders women for “women suits” in an effort to satisfy his transgender desire.  Truitt acknowledges and expands on Marshall’s critique, but then takes an unexpected turn, talking about beginning to “reclaim” the character of Buffalo Bill and questioning Marshall’s claim that the heroine of the book, Clarice Starling, “is, simply, good.” AntBreach is baffled by this.  He reiterates the claim made by Hannibal Lecter in Thomas Harris’s original novel (and the film) that “Billy’s not a transsexual,” a claim repeated by Marshall.  He then wonders, “If you want to reduce stigma against trans people, why would you insist one of cinema’s most gruesome horror villains was trans all along?” At this point I have to make a confession: I have never watched the entire Silence of the Lambs.  Shortly after it came out, when I was still in the closet, I was invited to join some friends who were watching it on video, but after the first half hour or so when I figured out it was going to be an unrealistic fantasy about transgender actions, I made some excuses and left.  I don’t care if you like the cinematography or the storytelling or the acting or any of that.  I’ve never liked horror movies, and on top of that I have very little patience for hateful fiction that distorts and belittles my experience or that of my people.  So fuck The Protocols of the Elders of Zion, fuck Deliverance, and fuck Silence of the Lambs. Because I haven’t seen the movie or read the book, I’m basing this post on what other people have written.  If you think any of my source information is incorrect, feel free to let me know. The answer to AntBreach’s question is that Lecter never said Buffalo Bill wasn’t trans.  He said that Bill wasn’t a transsexual – and if he wasn’t a transsexual, he was a transvestite.  As Truitt points out, this is the same gatekeeping technique – sheep go to heaven, goats go to hell – developed by Harry Benjamin and practiced by the medical establishment for over fifty years.  It is contemptuous and inhuman whether it is coming from Hannibal Lecter, or Ray Blanchard, or Clarice Starling. As a transvestite myself, I am not at all comforted by the idea that Buffalo Bill wasn’t a transsexual.  Transphobia isn’t the hatred of transsexuals, it’s the hatred of all of us.  Marshall makes this core point by saying that Lecter’s statement “doesn’t change the fact that Buffalo Bill is depicted as a character whose queerness is inextricably bound up in murderous desire.”  I wish that Marshall had also accepted that Buffalo Bill was trans, not just some unspecified form of queer. But I’m pretty sure that Marshall is not a transvestite, and neither are Truitt or AntBreach, or for that matter Harris or director Jonathan Demme, or Lecter, or Starling, or Benjamin or Blanchard.  And this gets to the problem that I have with so many of these articles: people who aren’t transvestites pontificating on who we are, what we feel, and what we do and why – or even using us as an insult to demean each other.  Even Truitt’s article is problematic in this regard, reproducing essentialist narratives of gender. This discussion raised other questions: is that really the way to deal with stigma?  What should trans people do about all these horror movies?  I’ll tackle them in future posts. In the meantime, do me a favor: next time you’re tempted to write something about transvestites, try to talk to at least one transvestite and find out what we think.  You can ask me, but I’m not the only one out there.  And no, transitioned trans people don’t count.  If you think you don’t know any transvestites, think about how many writers thought they didn’t know any gay men or lesbians fifty years ago. Articles Categorization Media The silence of the transvestites This is the third in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don’t want to.  You can read the first installment here.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. After a Twitter exchange and a blog comment, I realized that I had to add this clarifying paragraph: There is a phrase “gender identity” that gets thrown around a lot, typically with a definition like the one given by GLAAD, “One’s internal, deeply held sense of one’s gender.”  I don’t have an internal, deeply held sense of gender, and I know a lot of other people who also don’t.  In any case, I’m using “identity” here in a very different way, to mean a sense of what gender someone is presenting as in the moment and how they intend to be perceived, including a whole package of assumptions, behaviors and presentations. Habits of gender expression can contribute to building a feminine identity separate from our existing masculine identity.  Even if we only express ourselves, or interact with others, in ways that feel normal to us, or that would not be unusual for a man, if they are unusual for us it means we are someone slightly different from who we are as a man.  Even if we just do the minimum necessary to pass, we are acting differently. Often we do more than that.  Through deliberate training or practice, or the repetition of simple acts of doing something feminine or interacting as a woman, we build up feminine identities that are separate from our old masculine ones. I’m sure this sounds fake to a lot of people, and it is – at first.  But the line between reality and play-acting is not as bright and solid as many believe.  People roleplay and practice all kinds of things – speeches, interviews, debates – often not because they want to be fake, but because on some level they want to be real. I used to think of transgender expression as a hobby, like model trains or collecting stuffed animals.  It turns out that it’s more like singing or painting, because there are people who do it full time, and because we can be tempted by the fantasy of that full-time life.  No matter how big a collection of model trains someone has, they generally don’t think they’re qualified to start driving freight trains for Norfolk Southern.  But someone who sings or paints for a hobby may think that someday they’ll be good enough to quit their job at the bank and become the next Paul Cézanne or Susan Boyle. A lot of what makes people “feel” like men or like women in conversation is socialization: patterns of interaction that are shaped by repeated practice.  How does someone get socialized as female?  She is perceived as female by those she interacts with.  A studied performance as a woman may be what it takes to get genuine female socialization.  You fake it till you make it. Ultimately, authenticity is irrelevant for the dysphoria ratchet.  What matters is the size and completeness of the new identity, and how much the person feels invested in it, not how much it resembles anyone else’s identity. Intention and awareness are also irrelevant.  A trans woman can believe she is “just trying on clothes,” or “just being myself with friends,” but if she repeatedly acts differently when in “female mode” than at other times, she will begin to think differently too. This concludes the third installment of the Slippery Slope. You can read the next installment, or read on in the full article. Actions Articles Beliefs Categorization The Slippery Slope Identity development on the Slippery Slope In December I wrote about a phenomenon I call eclipsing, where a subset of a category can come to be thought of as equivalent to the entire category.  This usually happens when the subcategory is particularly salient, or discussed much more frequently, than other members of the category.  The example I gave was concentration camp, where the extermination camps of the Nazis eclipsed the camps used by the Spanish to isolate civilians in Cuba and by the US to incarcerate Japanese-Americans in California. This eclipsing can be an effect of greater salience, which is a big factor in stereotypes.  Assimilated immigrants routinely complain about being eclipsed by more recent arrivals.  Not all Indian-Americans eat curry, not all Mexican-Americans listen to accordion music, and not all Dominican-Americans are good dancers.  These notable examples don’t even need to be in the majority; they just need to be so memorable that we forget all the others. There is an example of eclipsing that particularly upsets me, and it is the eclipsing of the transgender category by people that we used to call transsexuals.  When I first encountered the term transgender, most of the people claiming it were cross-dressers.  There were several transsexuals who considered themselves outside of, and sometimes superior to, transgender people.  (There are a few who still do.) In 2016 transgender is still used in the “umbrella” sense that includes cross-dressers, but many people explicitly reject that sense, insisting on transition (or a credible commitment to a future transition) as a necessary condition for trans status.  How did this new, exclusionary sense arise?  Through eclipsing. Of all the subgroups of the broader definition of transgender, two groups are the least salient: cross-dressers and detransitioned transsexuals.  We are the most likely to be closeted, and we spend the least amount of time being noticeable.  Transitioned transsexuals who are “stealth,” or who have simply gotten on with their lives and been socialized in their new gender, are the next least noticeable group. The most salient group under the “trans umbrella” are the transsexuals who are currently transitioning.  They are not only among the most visible – trying out all the outfits they’ve wanted to wear in their entire life, and learning how to groom themselves in their new gender – but they are constantly thinking about their gender and their transition, and many of them are constantly talking about it.  If you ask people about the trans people they’ve known, you’ll hear lots of transition stories before you hear about post-transition people or cross-dressers. The second most salient subgroup of trans people is drag queens, which explains why a group of transitioners tried so hard a few years ago to get the drag queens kicked out of the transgender category. So why does this eclipsing bother me so much?  That’ll have to wait for another post. Articles Categorization Verbal Hygiene How “transsexual” eclipsed “transgender” This is the second in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don’t want to.  You can read the first installment here.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. So how does the slippery slope work, and why do we have such difficulty steering a course between transition and repression?  In my observation there are three interacting parts: feelings, actions and identity.  They are correlated: at the top of the slope the transgender actions are minimal (for example, just wearing an article or two of women’s clothing), the trans woman doesn’t really have a well-developed feminine identity, and any feelings of gender dysphoria or transgender desire are mild.  At the bottom of the slope, right before deciding to transition, the trans woman may have already begun irreversible body modifications (hormones or surgery), spends a lot of time interacting with others as a woman, and regularly feels intense dysphoria when she isn’t presenting as a woman. Many people interpret this correlation as causation, that the gender expression and/or identity development cause the dysphoria.  They conclude that this middle way is doomed, and the only true options are repression or transition.  I myself have believed this at times, but I’ve come to realize that it’s not as simple as that.  There is causation, but it’s complex. What happens is that a trans woman’s feelings, actions and identity all work together in a ratchet mechanism.  There is a normal ebb and flow to gender dysphoria.  It is never constant, but rather rises and falls in response to various factors in the environment.  Every trans person has it, and many non-trans people have it.  As far as I know it never goes away, even if we transition.  When we decide not to transition, it’s usually because the fluctuations are within our tolerance range, and we expect them to remain there.  When we decide to transition it’s usually because the dysphoria has gotten so extreme that we don’t think we can handle it. In the ratchet mechanism, each action of gender expression leads to further investment of time, money, effort and even our own bodies in that gender expression, further development of our feminine identity and a corresponding neglect of our masculine identity.  These in turn increase the desire for more frequent and more in-depth transgender expression.  Eventually our feminine identities approach the scale of our masculine identities in size and complexity. At some point we encounter a crisis.  It could be related to gender dysphoria, but it doesn’t have to be.  During that crisis we realize that we can no longer sustain two strong identities.  If the crisis comes during a significant gender event, or if we have a significant gender event during the crisis, we also may be experiencing a peak in gender dysphoria, and our decision-making ability may be impaired by the intense focus on gender known as the “pink cloud” or “gender fog.”  These factors can tip the scales in favor of transition. So why do any feminine gender expression at all?  As I said above, if we repress our feelings we wind up resenting that, and eventually rebelling.  The single most effective way I have found of heading off that repression is being out of the closet, and having people I can trust to talk to about these feelings.  But for many of us talking is not enough, and the next most important way is expressing ourselves as women, whether alone, in small private groups, or in public. This concludes the second installment of the Slippery Slope. You can read the next installment, or read on in the full article. Actions Articles Categorization The Slippery Slope The mechanism behind the slippery slope The other day on Twitter, someone posted about “that knowing look” that women exchange when a man is talking down to them.  This is the mild end of a spectrum of actions that women take out of solidarity with each other, from looks through accompanying each other to the bathroom, through friendship to full-on man-hating separatism. Added February 7: In a speech endorsing Hillary Clinton for President yesterday, Madeleine Albright said “There’s a special place in hell for women who don’t help each other.”  According to Maureen O’Connor she has been saying this since at least 2004.  It’s a striking example of the kind of problematic solidarity I’m talking about. In contrast, Erica Violet Lee gives examples of situations where solidarity may well have been the best available course of action – in part because of solidarity among men. The problems they are responding to are a hundred percent real.  From disrespect to discrimination to harassment and rape and murder, women are systematically oppressed in our society.  This is a matter of social structure, not agency, but the structure exerts its oppression on women in large part by enabling and encouraging people to take action against them, and the vast majority of those actors are men.  It is thus not surprising that in many circumstances women trust each other more than men. It is also not specific to gender: members of oppressed groups have always tried to show each other solidarity.  Black people share knowing looks, gay men walk each other home, Deaf people form friendships, Jews form separatist communities.  Sometimes these measures work, sometimes they don’t. When solidarity fails, it’s because people fail to realize that it’s a kludge, a statistical bet on the effects of these social structures.  It’s because they mistake the structures that encourage people to dehumanize others and behave like assholes with the prevalence of actual psychopaths and assholes.  They forget that God (or Odin or Krishna or whoever) has carefully sprinkled assholes and psychopaths throughout the population, so that they are represented among Black people and gay men and Deaf people and Jews and trans people and yes, even women. Solidarity also fails when people fail to realize that the structure does not affect everyone equally.  Of course, many people are smart enough to adjust their solidarity to take into account edge cases and intersectionalities.  One well-known example is when women include gay men among their “girlfriends” – but absolutism fails here too, as many people have observed that there are gay men who are just as misogynist as any straight man. Like any kludge, gender solidarity can be incredibly useful.  But like any kludge, it works best when we know its limitations, use it sparingly, and try not to think of it as a stable long-term solution to our problems.  See also: segregated bathrooms and gender roles. Allies Articles Categorization Kludges Patriarchy Violence Gender solidarity is a kludge This is the first in a series of posts discussing the Slippery Slope, how it works, and how you might be able to avoid sliding down it if you don’t want to.  I have already written the entire article in long form, if you want to read the whole thing right away. There’s an old and tasteless joke: Q: What’s the difference between a transvestite and a transsexual? A: Two years. Nowadays we would say “cross dresser” instead of “transvestite” and “trans woman” instead of “transsexual,” although that is problematic because transvestites and cross dressers are trans women too.  Behind this joke lies a common observation: that many people identify at one point in their lives as cross-dressers, butch lesbians or genderqueer, and then later transition to a binary gender different from the one assigned to them at birth. The “two years” part comes from the fact that this transition typically happens within two years of the time the observer first meets the trans person, or learns about their trans feelings, beliefs or actions.  Helen Boyd, in My Husband Betty, called it “the slippery slope,” and described the anxiety that she and other people felt about their non-transitioning trans spouses.  They didn’t want their partners to hide in fear, but they also were afraid of losing their partners, or no longer finding them attractive. Since reading about the “slippery slope,” I’ve watched a good dozen or more people who had insisted they were “just cross dressers” slide down to hormones and full-time name and pronoun changes.  (That includes Betty, although she and Helen were able to work out a satisfactory arrangement to continue their marriage.)  I’ve read about many more, including celebrities like Lana Wachowski and Caitlyn Jenner. For the rest of this post I’m going to focus on the “feminine spectrum” of people assigned male at birth who feel a desire to be women, because that’s what I have the most information about.  The dynamic is somewhat different for the masculine spectrum, but I believe a close look would find similar factors at work. A lot of people who have been down the slippery slope say things like, “I always knew deep inside,” or “I had to stop hiding my true self,” but previously insisted just as heavily that they knew deep inside that their true selves were male and that they wanted to live as men for the rest of their lives.  Others who now claim certainty used to say that they did not know. I don’t believe in essential gender, so I don’t buy the claims of essential womanhood made by people at the bottom of the slope or the claims of essential manhood made by those at the top of the slope.  But I do believe that people at the bottom of the slope feel more like women than those at the top. This is not because they have tapped into some essence that was already there, but because they have built a feminine identity over the course of that two years or so, often without meaning to or without understanding the consequences. The consequences are important, because many people at the top of the slope believe that they are essentially different from the transitioners at the bottom.  They believe they will never transition, they tell everyone that, and they plan their lives around never transitioning.  If they slip down the slope and transition, the consequences for their lives and families are often dramatic. Other people at the top of the slope do not know whether they are trans, or whether transition is right for them.  They want to find out and, often with the encouragement of other trans people, experiment with different forms of feminine presentation.  But many of them don’t realize that experimentation changes you.  If they slip down the slope, the results of the experiments will tell them to transition.  It’s like putting a big thumb on the scale. As the “two years” joke and Helen’s chapter indicate, a lot of people know that the slippery slope exists.  There are three common responses, and one is to reject everything trans and repress all transgender desire.  This sometimes “succeeds” in avoiding transition, but repression always makes the person miserable and resentful.  In fact, repression can backfire, leading to resentment, rebellion and increased dysphoria. Another common response is to accept the slippery slope as inevitable, as Natalie Reed did when she told me that gender dysphoria “WILL keep coming back. And it WILL get harder.”  If it truly is inevitable, it is important to be honest with our loved ones and begin planning the transition as soon as possible. When I heard about the slippery slope I wasn’t ready to accept transition as inevitable. I decided to see what I could do to avoid it.  I’ve done more than that, though: I’ve kept my eyes and ears open.  I’ve paid attention to my own experiences and learned from my mistakes.  And like a good video game player, I’ve watched others and learned from their successes and failures. On the basis of all these observations, I think I understand how the slippery slope works, and I have come up with a set of strategies that I use to keep myself from sliding down.  I have been successful: I have avoided both repression and transition, and my peak dysphoria is not much higher than it was when I came out twenty years ago. These strategies are highly experimental.  I don’t know anyone else who has tried them, so I can’t promise they will work for anyone else.  But I hope some people will find them useful.  If you try them, please let me know your successes and failures. I want to stress one thing: this is not a prescription for every trans woman.  I have no desire to second-guess anyone’s decision to transition, or to discourage anyone from giving transition full consideration.  On the contrary, I think all trans people should give transition full and careful consideration.  I offer my observations in the hope that other people may find them useful in making their decisions. These strategies are not easy.  But then, repression is not easy, and transition is not easy.  Ultimately, we should decide which of the three possibilities to follow based on which one fits best with our vision of our own future.  And until we decide, we should experiment and investigate in ways that don’t predetermine our decision. This concludes the first installment of the Slippery Slope.  You can read the next installment, or read on in the full article. Actions Articles Categorization The Slippery Slope Introducing the Slippery Slope This is long, and rough, and I’m sure it’s going to piss a lot of people off, but I don’t want to sit on it, so here it is.  Please feel free to suggest changes for future drafts. Two years There’s an old and tasteless joke: Q: What’s the difference between a transvestite and a transsexual? A: Two years. Nowadays we would say “cross dresser” instead of “transvestite” and “trans woman” instead of “transsexual,” although that is problematic because transvestites and cross dressers are trans women too.  Behind this joke lies a common observation: that many people identify at one point in their lives as cross-dressers, butch lesbians or genderqueer, and then later transition to a binary gender different from the one assigned to them at birth. The “two years” part comes from the fact that this transition typically happens within two years of the time the observer first meets the trans person, or learns about their trans feelings, beliefs or actions.  Helen Boyd, in My Husband Betty, called it “the slippery slope,” and described the anxiety that she and other people felt about their non-transitioning trans spouses.  They didn’t want their partners to hide in fear, but they also were afraid of losing their partners, or no longer finding them attractive. Since reading about the “slippery slope,” I’ve watched a good dozen or more people who had insisted they were “just cross dressers” slide down to hormones and full-time name and pronoun changes.  (That includes Betty, although she and Helen were able to work out a satisfactory arrangement to continue their marriage.)  I’ve read about many more, including celebrities like Lana Wachowski and Caitlyn Jenner. For the rest of this post I’m going to focus on the “feminine spectrum” of people assigned male at birth who feel a desire to be women, because that’s what I have the most information about.  The dynamic is somewhat different for the masculine spectrum, but I believe a close look would find similar factors at work. A lot of people who have been down the slippery slope say things like, “I always knew deep inside,” or “I had to stop hiding my true self,” but previously insisted just as heavily that they knew deep inside that their true selves were male and that they wanted to live as men for the rest of their lives.  Others who now claim certainty used to say that they did not know. I don’t believe in essential gender, so I don’t buy the claims of essential womanhood made by people at the bottom of the slope or the claims of essential manhood made by those at the top of the slope.  But I do believe that people at the bottom of the slope feel more like women than those at the top. This is not because they have tapped into some essence that was already there, but because they have built a feminine identity over the course of that two years or so, often without meaning to or without understanding the consequences. The consequences are important, because many people at the top of the slope believe that they are essentially different from the transitioners at the bottom.  They believe they will never transition, they tell everyone that, and they plan their lives around never transitioning.  If they slip down the slope and transition, the consequences for their lives and families are often dramatic. Other people at the top of the slope do not know whether they are trans, or whether transition is right for them.  They want to find out and, often with the encouragement of other trans people, experiment with different forms of feminine presentation.  But many of them don’t realize that experimentation changes you.  If they slip down the slope, the results of the experiments will tell them to transition.  It’s like putting a big thumb on the scale. As the “two years” joke and Helen’s chapter indicate, a lot of people know that the slippery slope exists.  There are three common responses, and one is to reject everything trans and repress all transgender desire.  This sometimes “succeeds” in avoiding transition, but repression always makes the person miserable and resentful.  In fact, repression can backfire, leading to resentment, rebellion and increased dysphoria. Another common response is to accept the slippery slope as inevitable, as Natalie Reed did when she told me that gender dysphoria “WILL keep coming back. And it WILL get harder.”  If it truly is inevitable, it is important to be honest with our loved ones and begin planning the transition as soon as possible. When I heard about the slippery slope I wasn’t ready to accept transition as inevitable. I decided to see what I could do to avoid it.  I’ve done more than that, though: I’ve kept my eyes and ears open.  I’ve paid attention to my own experiences and learned from my mistakes.  And like a good video game player, I’ve watched others and learned from their successes and failures. On the basis of all these observations, I think I understand how the slippery slope works, and I have come up with a set of strategies that I use to keep myself from sliding down.  I have been successful: I have avoided both repression and transition, and my peak dysphoria is not much higher than it was when I came out twenty years ago. These strategies are highly experimental.  I don’t know anyone else who has tried them, so I can’t promise they will work for anyone else.  But I hope some people will find them useful.  If you try them, please let me know your successes and failures. I want to stress one thing: this is not a prescription for every trans woman.  I have no desire to second-guess anyone’s decision to transition, or to discourage anyone from giving transition full consideration.  On the contrary, I think all trans people should give transition full and careful consideration.  I offer my observations in the hope that other people may find them useful in making their decisions. These strategies are not easy.  But then, repression is not easy, and transition is not easy.  Ultimately, we should decide which of the three possibilities to follow based on which one fits best with our vision of our own future.  And until we decide, we should experiment and investigate in ways that don’t predetermine our decision. The mechanism behind the slippery slope So how does the slippery slope work, and why do we have such difficulty steering a course between transition and repression?  In my observation there are three interacting parts: feelings, actions and identity.  They are correlated: at the top of the slope the transgender actions are minimal (for example, just wearing an article or two of women’s clothing), the trans woman doesn’t really have a well-developed feminine identity, and any feelings of gender dysphoria or transgender desire are mild.  At the bottom of the slope, right before deciding to transition, the trans woman may have already begun irreversible body modifications (hormones or surgery), spends a lot of time interacting with others as a woman, and regularly feels intense dysphoria when she isn’t presenting as a woman. Many people interpret this correlation as causation, that the gender expression and/or identity development cause the dysphoria.  They conclude that this middle way is doomed, and the only true options are repression or transition.  I myself have believed this at times, but I’ve come to realize that it’s not as simple as that.  There is causation, but it’s complex. What happens is that a trans woman’s feelings, actions and identity all work together in a ratchet mechanism.  There is a normal ebb and flow to gender dysphoria.  It is never constant, but rather rises and falls in response to various factors in the environment.  Every trans person has it, and many non-trans people have it.  As far as I know it never goes away, even if we transition.  When we decide not to transition, it’s usually because the fluctuations are within our tolerance range, and we expect them to remain there.  When we decide to transition it’s usually because the dysphoria has gotten so extreme that we don’t think we can handle it. In the ratchet mechanism, each action of gender expression leads to further investment of time, money, effort and even our own bodies in that gender expression, further development of our feminine identity and a corresponding neglect of our masculine identity.  These in turn increase the desire for more frequent and more in-depth transgender expression.  Eventually our feminine identities approach the scale of our masculine identities in size and complexity. At some point we encounter a crisis.  It could be related to gender dysphoria, but it doesn’t have to be.  During that crisis we realize that we can no longer sustain two strong identities.  If the crisis comes during a significant gender event, or if we have a significant gender event during the crisis, we also may be experiencing a peak in gender dysphoria, and our decision-making ability may be impaired by the intense focus on gender known as the “pink cloud” or “gender fog.”  These factors can tip the scales in favor of transition. So why do any feminine gender expression at all?  As I said above, if we repress our feelings we wind up resenting that, and eventually rebelling.  The single most effective way I have found of heading off that repression is being out of the closet, and having people I can trust to talk to about these feelings.  But for many of us talking is not enough, and the next most important way is expressing ourselves as women, whether alone, in small private groups, or in public. Identity development Habits of gender expression can contribute to building a feminine identity separate from our existing masculine identity.  Even if we only express ourselves, or interact with others, in ways that feel normal to us, or that would not be unusual for a man, if they are unusual for us it means we are someone slightly different from who we are as a man.  Even if we just do the minimum necessary to pass, we are acting differently. Often we do more than that.  Through deliberate training or practice, or the repetition of simple acts of doing something feminine or interacting as a woman, we build up feminine identities that are separate from our old masculine ones. I’m sure this sounds fake to a lot of people, and it is – at first.  But the line between reality and play-acting is not as bright and solid as many believe.  People roleplay and practice all kinds of things – speeches, interviews, debates – often not because they want to be fake, but because on some level they want to be real. I used to think of transgender expression as a hobby, like model trains or collecting stuffed animals.  It turns out that it’s more like singing or painting, because there are people who do it full time, and because we can be tempted by the fantasy of that full-time life.  No matter how big a collection of model trains someone has, they generally don’t think they’re qualified to start driving freight trains for Norfolk Southern.  But someone who sings or paints for a hobby may think that someday they’ll be good enough to quit their job at the bank and become the next Paul Cézanne or Susan Boyle. A lot of what makes people “feel” like men or like women in conversation is socialization: patterns of interaction that are shaped by repeated practice.  How does someone get socialized as female?  She is perceived as female by those she interacts with.  A studied performance as a woman may be what it takes to get genuine female socialization.  You fake it till you make it. Ultimately, authenticity is irrelevant for the dysphoria ratchet.  What matters is the size and completeness of the new identity, and how much the person feels invested in it, not how much it resembles anyone else’s identity. Intention and awareness are also irrelevant.  A trans woman can believe she is “just trying on clothes,” or “just being myself with friends,” but if she repeatedly acts differently when in “female mode” than at other times, she will begin to think differently too.  Progress and slipping  A major factor in the ratchet mechanism is a desire for some kind of progress in our gender expression.  Some trans women have a routine that they repeat over and over again in exactly the same way for years, but many of us like progress.  Doing the same thing over and over again can get boring.  Like the model train collector who is always buying new pieces of equipment, or the singer who is always learning new songs, we like to achieve things.  What counts as an achievement is entirely personal, and specific to the circumstances at the time.  Sometimes it’s a new purchase, like clothing, shoes, makeup, wigs or padding.  For those further down the slippery slope it can be a new body modification.  It can also be a milestone in the development of a skill, or a social event like a support group, party or date.  These significant gender events are the most difficult part of navigating the slippery slope.  Without them we can feel like we’re denying and repressing ourselves, which can lead to resentment and rebellion.  But each significant gender event contributes to building the feminine identity.  It also comes with a temporary increase in dysphoria, and often with the short-term impaired decision making known as the “pink fog.”  The investment in our feminine identity and the increased dysphoria can in turn increase the desire for more frequent transgender expression. Dysphoria, pink fog and significant gender events In my observation, when a trans woman experiences one of these significant gender events, it can bring up a lot of feelings.  This can have a major impact on our gender dysphoria: each significant gender event produces strong feelings of anticipation, gratification and disappointment.  Each of these feelings by itself can produce peaks of dysphoria, and they are accompanied by an intense focus on the event that increases the baseline of dysphoria for that period. These events can be so significant that we get excited.  Very excited, as in unable to sleep for nights beforehand.  We can spend a lot of time thinking about the event: what to wear, where to go, what precautions to take.  We can feel frustrations with make-up, clothing, padding, wigs.  We can feel impatient with the lead time, and want to get it over with so that the event can start.  These frustrations, this impatience, feeds gender dysphoria. The events themselves can sometimes be disappointing.  The disappointment can come from interactions with other people, who may treat us like men, disrespect us, discriminate against us, harass us or even attack us – or simply not find us attractive.  Or it can come from not liking what we see in the mirror or a photograph, or how our clothes fit.  These disappointments feed dysphoria. The events can be gratifying: we can have our femininity, our status as women, our attractiveness confirmed.  We can simply have a good time.  But even that gratification can feed dysphoria, because we often want more.  If we have success, we want to build on that success.  The event can be a high, and then we can experience withdrawal afterwards. Whatever happens before, during and after the significant gender event, we spend a large part of that time focused on the event, thinking about what will happen, what is happening, what has happened.  Just the fact of thinking so much about gender and about our own gender presentation can increase the chance that we will feel dysphoria. Finally, this intense focus on the event can impair our judgment.  This is widely recognized by trans people, and sometimes called the “pink fog.”  When we are in the pink fog, we often make decisions that we would not have made at other times, decisions that we sometimes regret later. This state of intense focus can begin up to a week before the significant gender event, and last for up to two weeks afterwards.  This means that for just one event we can spend as much as three weeks focused on gender expression, increasing our dysphoria, and with potentially impaired judgment.  If we have these significant gender events less than three weeks apart, we may be constantly in this pink fog. Sunk costs The third part of the mechanism is sunk costs.  Just an average woman’s wardrobe and grooming supplies can cost a lot of money.  Even if we don’t buy a complete wardrobe the expense is in addition to our men’s wardrobe.  If we are in the closet at all, we may pay to rent a separate place to store our clothing and change into it, or to join a club for that purpose.  Any specialized makeup, wigs or padding is additional, and training is on top of that. These can cost a lot; we tend to think of them as investments and want to get value from them.  I spent sixty dollars on a pair of boots last winter, and I was pretty happy once I found a chance to wear them. Time is another sunk cost.  We spend time on voice training, time practicing wearing clothes and shoes and walking in them.  Women on average spend more time than men on grooming; trans women often have to spend even more time on things like shaving and make-up. To save time, we may spend even more money on what Helen calls “soft body mods” like shaving or electrolysis.  We may try to avoid growing big muscles.  If we have a full head of hair, we may grow it long.  We may forego beards or mustaches because we don’t want to look conspicuous after we shave them off. Further down the slope, some of us get more dramatic body modifications, even if we don’t intend to transition.  Some people get facial surgery, others take “a low dose” of hormones to get small breasts. All of that money, all of that time, all the opportunities we’ve passed up are sunk costs.  They all whisper to us, “Shouldn’t we be doing more with this?  Nobody’s seen my legs yet this summer.  Those boots are just sitting in the closet.  I spent an hour getting my makeup and now I’m going to take a few selfies and wipe it off?” Neglect of the masculine identity Alongside all time, energy, money and focus that we invest in our feminine identities, appearances and activities, we often neglect of our masculine selves.  We may not have felt excited about living as a man, let alone comfortable with it, for years to begin with. Most of us don’t have the money to support two people, on top of whatever family commitments we have, or the time and energy to live two separate lives.  What we spend on our feminine selves is money, time and energy we don’t have for our masculine selves. In terms of personality, the skills we learn and the habits we develop as women can be hard to transfer to our lives as men.  Relationships that we develop as women may not carry over to our masculine selves. The tipping point At some point on the slope the trans woman decides that transition is the best course of action for her.  Even if she had previously decided to live as a man, she may conclude at this point that it was the wrong decision.  She may well be right, but that does not mean she was wrong in her previous decision not to transition.  What has happened is that she has changed from someone who was probably better off not transitioning to someone who was probably better off transitioning. It was the slippery slope, the dysphoria ratchet, that changed her over time.  Each significant gender event grew and developed the habits, the thought patterns, the relationships that formed her feminine identity.  As this new identity has been growing, the sunk costs have been mounting and she has been neglecting to make similar investments in the masculine identity that she had chosen to remain with. When the feminine identity is so small and undeveloped compared to the masculine identity, it is easy to reject or defer transition.  But if it gets to the point where the feminine identity is better developed, transition can seem more feasible.  If someone has spent a day or more as a woman, it is easier to imagine spending the rest of her life as a woman. Once a trans woman gets to the point where her female identity is well-developed, she may still choose not to transition.  But sometimes circumstances arise that can make her reconsider.  I have known, and known of, several trans women who chose to transition during a divorce or midlife crisis, or after losing a job, moving to a new place, or the death of a loved one.  When it feels like everything in our life is changing, why not gender too? Here, the “pink fog” plays a role again.  Some trans women make a calm, rational decision to transition, but many decide to transition when their judgment is impaired by the excitement brought on by a significant gender event.  These events can also increase dysphoria, making the case for transition feel stronger and more urgent. Keeping your footing on the slippery slope Here, as promised, are a few strategies that I have developed over the years to keep myself relatively stable.  I can’t say they’ve worked completely for me: I’m further down the slope than I’d like to be.  I can’t promise they’ll work for you, but I hope some of you will find them useful.  Don’t repress yourself.  You’ll just resent it, and then wind up rebelling.  Only take the following steps if you agree with the reasoning behind them.  Do not deny yourself feminine expression without a good reason – like the following reasons. Invest in your masculine identity.  This is who you chose to be for the rest of your life.  You might as well get comfortable.  When you think about the future, make sure you spend most of your time thinking about your future as a man. Don’t invest too much in your feminine identity.  If you’re serious about not becoming a woman, don’t act like you’re planning to be one.  Don’t spend too much money or time or energy on your life as a woman, because you’ve already decided that it’s a dead end.  Don’t get in the habit of doing things that you can only do as a woman, or make friends who only know you as a woman. Spread out your significant gender events.  This may well be the most important strategy.  In my experience, the excitement of anticipation can last for up to a week before the event, and the gratification phase can last for up to two weeks after.  That’s three weeks of pink fog.  I tried scheduling my events at least a month apart, but that left only one week out of four that I wasn’t in some kind of fog.  I’ve changed it to six weeks minimum, and that feels much better.  If you have experiences or observations that are relevant, please let me know.  What works for you or your friends?  What doesn’t work? Actions Articles How the slippery slope works, and how not to slide down if you don’t want to The author, big hairy scary man This month there has been a lot of talk about support for alternatives to transition.  In Slate, Michelle Goldberg wrote about a group of “gender-critical trans women,” including several who identify as transgender or transsexual.  In a reaction to the shutdown of the CAMH clinic, Alice Dreger talked about people who were gender non-conforming children and didn’t transition, linking to a book called Blood and Visions, a post by Debra Soh and an interview with Sarah Hoffman.  Maria Catt wrote about her experiences taking and dispensing testosterone to female-bodied people.  Joel Nowak hoisted a great comment by Juniper asking, “Where are the examples of (so many) people who have lived long and well WITHOUT surgeries or hormones?” 4th Wave Now expanded on Juniper’s post, highlighting the value of alternatives to transition in reducing the incidence of trans suicides. We do need to hear more from examples of people who have successfully coped with gender dsyphoria without transitioning.  So, let’s take a look at who’s represented in these articles:  Women who don’t suffer from chronic gender dysphoria (Goldberg, Dreger, Hoffman and 4th Wave Now) Women who have dealt with dysphoria without transitioning (Soh and Juniper) People raised as girls who transitioned to living as men, then detransitioned (Catt and the authors of Blood and Visions) People raised as boys who transitioned to living as women, but are critical of transgender dogma and identify as male (the women interviewed by Goldberg) People raised as boys who transitioned to living as women, then detransitioned (Joel and the author of Third Way Trans)  These are all important stories, important voices.  But there’s a population missing: men who have dealt with dysphoria without transitioning.  If people like Joel and Juniper are virtually invisible, people like me are actually invisible. And yet our stories are hugely important.  Most of the people I’ve mentioned have complained about transgender dogma, particularly as articulated by transitioned trans women, and particularly about the demands made by transitioned trans women for unconditional access to women’s spaces.  Many have complained about the behavior of individual transitioned trans women, online and in person. It’s very nice for transitioned trans women to be accepted (by some) as feminists.  It’s absolutely essential for detransitioned trans women to be heard.  But if what we’re looking for are alternatives to transition, we need to make space for people raised male to talk about how we deal with gender dysphoria without transitioning.  And people need to listen to us, not just talk at us. I’ve been blogging about this stuff for years, and for some reason I’m not mentioned by Goldberg or Dreger or Catt or Joel.  I had some conversations with detransitioned trans men on Tumblr a few years ago, and they got very angry.  I tried talking to the gender-critical trans women on Tumblr, and they ignored me.  I tried to talk to Joel about this on Twitter, but he cut me off.  I simply posted about my gender-related feelings on my own blog, and gender-critical feminists mocked me on their blog. I don’t think it’s me, but let’s assume that it is.  Let’s assume that I somehow came off as a huge asshole.  Why am I the only one blogging about this stuff?  Why haven’t Goldberg or Dreger, who are journalists, gone and found some male-bodied people who have dealt with gender dysphoria without transitioning? I have a simple theory about this.  It’s one thing to deal with women, even gender non-conforming women and detransitioned trans men.  Boys are pretty safe, especially “pink boys.”  If you’re willing to be flexible, transitioned and even detransitioned trans women can be seen as womanly enough.  They’ve had hair removal and lots of female socialization.  But it’s another thing to deal with men.  Big strong hairy muscular men with deep voices, talking about sports or gadgets or hunting, some of us in dresses. Third Wave Trans has written one of the wisest things I’ve read about this: many people, including me, have been traumatized by men in their lives.  I’ve largely gotten over my trauma, but lots of people have a hard time trusting men.  Some have a hard time even being in the same room with men. I get this.  I’m not asking anyone to go beyond their comfort zone.  If some people are unable to relate to men without being mistrustful or hostile – or at all – I’m not going to demand that they do. But someone needs to talk to us.  Someone needs to listen to us.  Someone needs to help us to be out and proud.  Someone needs to tell the young trans women out there that they can be happy without transitioning.  Joel accused me of demanding “politeness.”  I am not.  I am also not trying to impose patriarchy or mansplain or dominate any discussions.  To paraphrase the immortal words of stimmyabby, I’m not demanding anyone treat me as an authority, only as a person.  I think it’s reasonable to ask people not to use us as insults to mock transitioned trans women.  If you’re going to make pronouncements about what we should and shouldn’t do, you could at least ask us if we think that would work. I am not writing this to criticize people for what they’ve written in the past, only voicing a plea for what they will write in the future.  The bottom line is that if we don’t want all the trans women thinking they have to transition, or commit suicide, we have to make it safe for trans women to be men. Actions Allies Articles Categorization Media Patriarchy We need support to be men I have been asked for my opinion on the debate over whether it’s okay for lesbians to preemptively restrict their sexual partners to people who fit their definition of women, in particular excluding anyone who has a penis. The bottom line is that everyone has an absolute right to control their own sexual activity, and to say no to sex with anyone, under any circumstances. People also have a right to decide who they want to flirt with, to date, to fantasize about.  Everyone has an absolute right to exclude any individual or group from their pool of prospective romantic partners, for any reason. To be honest, it would be hypocritical of me to say anything else, because I am pretty much only attracted to women.  Not on principle, and not with a specific definition of woman that anyone else would agree with, but that’s what turns me on.  None of that really matters at this point, because I haven’t been sexually active with anyone other than my wife since before we were married, and I’m very attracted to her. This issue is particularly important to me because I was touched, without my consent, as a child.  But it is something that everyone should care about, because it is a matter of physical and emotional autonomy.  Even beyond the individual level, if we cannot all feel safe in our bodies, what effect does that have on our society? Articles Sexuality Everyone has the right to say no Since the early days of medical transition, people have remarked that there are differences between trans people who transition and those of us who don’t.  Often this is ascribed to a difference of essence: some believe they can divide male-to-female trans people into the “true transsexuals” who are essentially women with a destiny to transition, and “just cross-dressers” who are essentially men.  I’m going to focus on the “feminine spectrum” for this post, but there are similar claims made for female-to-male trans people.  Nobody has yet found a foolproof test for this essence of femininity or masculinity.  What people use instead is a gut feeling: the supposedly real trans women just “feel like women,” even without making an effort to present as women, while the supposedly fake trans women “feel like men.”  Many trans people stress these claimed differences.  They argue that non-transitioners who look like “men in dresses” give true trans women a bad name and claim protections they don’t deserve. My experience has run pretty much counter to those claims.  I have met trans women who transitioned decades ago but “feel” like men to me, and trans women who have never transitioned but “feel” like women.  I myself have never transitioned, but when I present as a woman anyone who doesn’t know me but knows I’m trans assumes that I transitioned long ago. If you talk to anyone who believes in this “gut feeling” and show them these counterexamples, they will explain them away with circular reasoning.  A transitioned trans woman who “feels like a man” is an impostor who should never have transitioned, and people like me are just in denial and will change our minds pretty soon. There is a simpler explanation for this discrepancy between “gut feeling” and reality: there is no essential gender.  But the “gut feeling” is not always wrong.  Where does it come from?  If we examine it, what we find is a more subtle form of passing, one that works even if the observer knows whether the person is trans.  There is no need to assume some inner gender; all the normal passing factors are enough to explain it: Some people just get the luck of the gene draw.  Shorter people with narrower shoulders and mouths, broader hips, smaller hands, feet and brow ridges, and higher voices tend to feel more “naturally” feminine, while taller people with broader shoulders and mouths, narrower hips, bigger hands, feet and brow ridges, and lower voices tend to feel more “naturally” masculine. Age plays a huge role. The effects of hormones on secondary sex characteristics don’t stop at puberty.  Trans women who transition early in life will have narrower shoulders and broader hips, while trans women who transition late, or never transition, will have broader shoulders and narrower hips. Body modifications and grooming are as relevant for this “feeling” as for the better-known forms of passing.  People who have committed to a transition are more likely to get surgery, hair removal and hair transplants.  These treatments are just as artificial as wigs or heavy make-up, but often less noticeable. One of the biggest factors is socialization. Mannerisms are just habits, and habits develop with experience.  Someone who spends a lot of time around women and is treated like a woman will act like the women around them and “feel” like a woman, and someone who spends a lot of time around men and is treated like a man will act like the men around them and “feel” like a man.  These effects are cumulative: the more time a person spends living in one gender, the more naturally they interact with others in that gender. Some trans women have pointed out that their socialization was not like typical male socialization. I agree, but I don’t think they were socialized female, either.  There are finer grains of male socialization: we are socialized as girly boys, nerdy boys, gay boys and others. When we get older we can be socialized as gay men.  This means we are given the space, or take the space, to speak and gesture more softly, taking as role models softer men, gay men, or women.  These differences may be felt by some as cues that we are “really” girls or women. There’s another kind of socialization as well: trans socialization.  I know a lot of trans women who socialize primarily with other trans women.  This may be out of choice, or because they’ve been rejected by non-trans people, or because they’re afraid of being rejected or worse.  If a whole bunch of trans women spend most of their time together, they’re going to wind up moving and sounding like each other, and like their ideas of women.  If none of them have any significant female socialization apart from that, then they may not “feel” like women to other people. Some trans people are just good actors or good mimics, and are able to move and sound like their target gender.  Does that mean that they’re less “real” than other trans people?  Maybe, maybe not.  Sometimes you have to fake it ’till you make it.  Some may have a strong desire to sound or move differently from the way they did before.  On the other hand, some may feel uncomfortable with any change in the way they move or sound. Between genes, aging, body modifications, grooming, socialization, alienation and just plain good acting, there are plenty of explanations for why some trans women “feel” like women, some trans men “feel” like men, and some don’t.  There is no mystical essence of gender, no “brain sex” required to explain this.  If you’ve pinned your hopes on the idea of being a “woman trapped in a man’s body,” you may not like this idea. On the other hand, thinking of this “feeling” as just another form of passing means that people who have some of these factors going against them may be able to eventually overcome them and “pass by feeling.”  It also means that those of us who have some of the factors in our favor can decide whether or not we want to transition based on what works for us, not whether we “feel like a woman” to someone else. Articles Categorization passing Do I feel like a woman to you? That’s me passing I’ve written before about how being in the closet makes us insecure and undermines our political power.  There’s another aspect to it: we resent it, and we rebel.  When we rebel, we can wind up hurting ourselves or innocent bystanders. When I was younger, my parents didn’t want to help or support my feminine self-expression, and I got clear messages that the establishment – the universities I attended, the government, the local street gangs, didn’t either.  Even the famous LGBT Center of New York told me in 1995 and again in 2000 that they had nothing to offer me if I wasn’t going to transition. As a result I kept my transgender feelings and actions a secret throughout my teenage and college years.  Coming out was a huge help, but even then I avoided directly telling anyone I didn’t trust.  I repressed my desires, and the more I repressed, the more resentful I felt. I didn’t really blame my family members who told me not to let anyone see me in a skirt, not to even talk about my desires.  At times I agreed with them; sometimes I still do.  But at other times it was easier to say to myself that they were wrong, and that they were holding me back. The more that resentment built up, the more tempted I was to rebel.  I felt alone and misunderstood, and powerless to fight even the LGBT Center, much less a gang, a college or the government.  So my rebellion took childish forms, along the lines of, “You said I couldn’t do it, but I’m going to do it anyway!  I don’t care if I get hurt.  And I don’t care if you get hurt!” I was lucky.  I didn’t get hurt, and I didn’t really hurt anyone around me.  Eventually, I began to grow out of this childish rebellion.  After being out online for years and still getting work, I came to the conclusion that there are plenty of people who just want the job done and don’t care if I’m trans.  I made connections with some people who were helpful, and the general cultural climate for trans people has improved. Today I still have restrictions on my gender expression, and I still sometimes feel a desire to rebel against them.  It helps to remind myself that they are my restrictions.  I have thought through the pros and cons and made the decision to place these restrictions where they are, and I own them. Unfortunately, those reminders are not always enough.  This is why I need to manage my gender expression and avoid feeling like I’m restricting myself too much.  Because restrictions and repression lead to resentment, and resentment leads to rebelliousness. Actions Articles Feelings The closet Repression, resentment and rebellion In 2013, in response to the murder of Islan Nettles, I talked about how a saner approach to sexual relationships between men and trans women, and between men and other men, would do a lot to reduce the number of murders of trans women, particularly poor trans women of color.  There was another trans woman killed in the area that year whose story was a bit different, and pointed to another factor that makes a big difference. Almost two years ago, Eyricka Morgan was killed in a boarding house in New Brunswick, New Jersey.  News reports say that she was arguing with a man who also lived in the boarding house, and when the argument got heated he stabbed her in the neck with a butcher knife.  Unlike the case of Islan Nettles, there is no mention of any sexual attraction between her and the suspect.  It may have just been one of the many kinds of arguments that happen between any two people who live in the same house. The question I had was why this argument turned violent.  There is nothing in the reports to suggest a reason, other than that this was the second fatal stabbing of 2013 in New Brunswick.  It may not have had anything to do with the fact that she was trans.  These things happen to non-trans people – a point that deserves its own blog post. Still I wondered whether things would have been different if Morgan’s living situation had been different.  What if she had lived in a different neighborhood?  What if she had had her own apartment, or shared a house with people she knew and trusted? It seems likely that Morgan lived in the same boarding house with that murderous young man because she couldn’t afford a safer living arrangement.  To understand why that might be, listen to Morgan herself (Part I, 25:30) describing why she left her family home in Newark at the age of fourteen or fifteen: she was regularly beaten by her grandparents and uncles.  Later in the panel (Part II, 25:28) she said, “I missed a lot of years of my youth due to something that I did, so I wasn’t really around for my youth years.”  If I understand her correctly, she’s saying she spent time in juvenile detention.  So what might Morgan’s life have been like if she had felt safe in her own home as a teenager?  Being homeless is a huge drain on a person’s time and energy, and being incarcerated is a huge setback.  What could she have accomplished if she hadn’t had to deal with that during those critical teenage years?  Would she have been able to finish college on time?  Would she have been better prepared for the adult job market? We know that connections are very valuable when building a career.  What might have happened if Morgan had not been cut off from all her family connections?  Could her grandmother and her uncles have connected her with jobs if they hadn’t driven her away? Many parents believe that it is part of their job to police the gender expression of their children, to make sure the boys grow up to be men and the girls grow up to be women.  This probably comes from ancient tribal anxieties.  The prescription is usually “tough love,” in the form of corporal punishment or verbal abuse. Can we all agree now that this “tough love” doesn’t work?  I’ve met trans people, and gay men, who’ve grown up with it.  They didn’t stop being trans or gay.  Some of them left home, like Morgan.  Others just learned how to hide it.  The “best” were able to suppress it.  None of them could have “given it up” however badly they wanted to. If we want to prevent murders like Eyricka Morgan’s, we need to stop parents and grandparents rejecting their kids for being trans or gay.  We can fund homeless shelters and outreach programs; I’m sure they help a lot.  But Morgan had outreach programs; they’re not enough. Somewhere along the line, Morgan’s grandmother was taught that if you have a “boy” who wants to act or dress feminine, you should beat the kid, and if they still do it then it’s okay to let them run away and sleep on the streets.  She passed that message on to her children – Morgan’s uncles. In contrast, the first thing my parents did was to make sure I knew that they would always love me, and that I always had a place to stay, no matter what I wore or how I talked. We need to stop sending parents and caregivers the message that a girly boy is something to be ashamed of.  We need to support parents and grandparents who support their kids.  That is something we can do to stop people murdering trans people. Articles Patriarchy Violence The role of family rejection in anti-trans violence As I’ve said before, trans people who have made up their minds to transition should be allowed to change their legal names and gender classifications, and modify their bodies with medically approved hormones or surgery, with no “conversion” or “reparative” therapy required, and legally protected against harassment and discrimination on the basis of trans status.  They deserve access to emotional and psychological support services to help them cope with the immense stresses of transition. Trans people like me who have made up our minds not to transition don’t need to change our bodies, legal names or gender classifications, but we still need to be protected against harassment and discrimination.  And as I’ve written before, we need plenty of emotional and psychological support.  This includes professional help, fully paid by insurance, but in my experience the professionals tend to be as clueless as everyone else, so non-professional peer support is also necessary. But those are people who have made their decisions, one way or another. Trans people need help to make their decisions as well.  That includes the initial decision to transition or not, and cases where someone changes their mind.  Right now, people are just fumbling, and the therapists  Some people experiment with gender presentation.  They often say that it’s to try out what it’s like to live as the other gender, but a lot of times it seems to me like simple wish fulfillment, and other times like desperate flailing.  I’ve heard of therapists encouraging this kind of experimentation without regard to the ways that experimentation can change a person, putting a thumb on the scales and making it impossible to draw any reasonable conclusions about whether to transition.  (This is a whole blog post in itself.) From what I’ve seen, what passes for “support” for transition decisions on the Internet these days goes like this: Q: I think I might be trans. I have trans feelings. A: If you have trans feelings, you’re trans. Q: I guess I’m trans, then.  What do I do now? A: Every trans person I know eventually transitions. Q: I guess I’m transitioning, then!  Where do I get hormones? A: Here’s where I got them. This is what Natalie Reed once told me she saw as her mission in the world.  It’s bullshit, and it’s a bait-and-switch, and it needs to stop. For the past several years, Zinnia Jones has been telling everyone to try hormones for a few weeks, and if they feel much happier then it means they’re Really Trans and should go ahead and transition.  The evidence she based this advice on was pathetically scanty, and that alone should be enough to get her skeptic card revoked. Support for people who decided not to transition and later reconsider is much the same.  Once they decide not to transition, they are immediately classified as “not really trans,” and when they reconsider it’s the same Q and A as above. Several detransitioners, both on the masculine and feminine spectrum, have said that they get virtually no support.  As soon as they declare their detransitions they’re kicked out of the trans community (if they were ever accepted).  It’s not too surprising that some detransitioned trans men convert to radical feminism after they detransition.  It’s one of the few communities that will take them in.  We don’t have anything like that on the feminine spectrum. What I would like to see is trans people making a thorough examination and visioning of all the possibilities we can imagine, including what life might be like when we’re no longer young and pretty, then weighing them to find which one would be most satisfying.  That’s what I did, but I don’t see anyone else doing it. I’ve gotten a lot of email and blog comments from people who tell me how happy they are to find something beyond the usual dogma and flamewars.  I do what I can, but nobody’s paying me to do this.  I’m not a mental health professional.  There should really be a group with a staff and a budget for this, but there isn’t. As I said above, the principle that Experimentation Changes You deserves a whole blog post, maybe more than one.  I’m working on one now. Actions Articles We need support to decide whether to transition This one was kind of long so I thought I’d try posting it on Medium. Actions Articles Feelings Gender fog Media The Sirens and the Green Witch Here’s how to make love to a trans person, (Actually, a transvestite, Actually, me, Because me is all I really know). The first step is to enter your lover’s fantasy world, (I mean my fantasy world), And be their fantasy. The next step is to let your lover, (I mean me), Be their fantasy. For you that may be the hardest part. Then there will come a time During your lovemaking When the fantasies run out, When there is no escaping reality, When your lover, (I mean I), Will have to face facts. The fact that you are two people, two animals, With real feelings that have been hurt before, With real fears and sore spots and longings. Then you must be ready To stop being fantasy you and start being real you, To stop making love to your fantasy lover and start loving the real person, (I mean the real me). You must be ready to be afraid and let your lover comfort you, To let them be afraid and comfort them, (I mean me), To be two people alone together, To be two animals grooming each other. You must be ready to take pleasure in the real person, (I mean the real me), To let them take pleasure in the real you, So that when you’re done making love You will still have real love. When you’re advanced you may be able to skip the first couple of steps. Sometimes. That’s how to make love to a trans person, (Well, actually, me. Well, actually, there’s only one person who can make love to me now. If that person isn’t you, This might work for other trans people). Actions Allies Articles Glamour Media How to make love to a trans person (I mean me) Text and photos by Clément Bürge, New York, for Le Temps, June 26, 2015. Translated from the French by Angus B. Grieve-Smith, New York, July 4, 2015. In the United States, the transition of 65 year old former Olympic champion and current reality TV star Bruce Jenner has cast a spotlight on transgender seniors.  But his case is far from unique: a growing number of people in their fifties, sixties and seventies are changing their sex.  Contrasting portraits. One day, Michael’s nine-year-old son looked up from his homework towards his father sitting on the couch.  For several months Michael and his wife had been in crisis.  “What you feel is never going to go away, Papa,” the son said, calmly.  “It will always be in you.”  That is the moment when Michael, stunned by his son’s words, understood that he would have to cross the abyss.  The next day he announced to his wife that, shortly before he turned fifty, he would become a woman. This choice was all the more difficult because, unlike people who change their sex in their twenties, Michael already had established a life for himself.  “My career, my family, my friends, I was running the risk of losing everything I had gained up to that point,” explains Stephanie, the charming blonde that he has become. Born Michael Battaglino in 1958, she knew from childhood that she was not supposed to be a boy.  “I grew up in a very religious Italian family,” she says.  “I did not know how to understand what I was feeling.”  So Michael decided to get rid of Stephanie, becoming as masculine as he could.  “I played football.  I weighed 236 pounds.”  With his college diploma in hand, Michael got married.  And then got married again, and then a third time.  “Each marriage ended in divorce after several years,” Stephanie explains.  “My life was a lie.” Today, the insurance vice-president feels better.  Her bleached blond hair, purple dress and bracelets stacked on her right arm give the 56-year-old woman a youthful air.  “For the first time in my life I feel like myself,” she says, grinding a salad with her square jaw. In the United States, transsexual seniors are finding themselves in the spotlight for the first time.  The sex change of Bruce Jenner, husband of the reality TV star Kris Jenner, made headlines.  The Amazon series Transparent, which tells the transition story of a seventy-year-old, won several Golden Globes.  In total, it is estimated that around 700,000 people in the United States suffer from what doctors call “gender dysphoria,” including a growing number of elderly people.  “Trans, gay and lesbian culture has always been oriented around young people,” says Vanessa Fabbre, an assistant professor at Washington University in Saint Louis, who has just finished her doctoral dissertation on the subject.  “But today, people between fifty and seventy are also joining the movement.”  These seniors often have not had any other choice than to wait for the twenty-first century to imagine a transition like this.  For them, changing sex at a younger age was impossible.  Growing up in a more conservative society than today, their condition was not accepted. Since then, the internet has arrived and popular culture has evolved.  Transitions are easier.  Very often, retirement marks the beginning of the process, because the fear of being unemployed has been lifted.  “Sometimes a health glitch like a heart attack can remind a person that they are mortal,” notes Vanessa Fabbre.  “They begin to count the years they have left and decide to stop hiding.” Bobbi Swan, a blonde with a sepulchral voice, was born in 1930 in Buffalo, in the north of New York State.  “In that era there was not even a word to describe what I was,” the 84-year-old woman remembers. After finishing school, Bobbi Swan enlisted in the American army.  She served in the Korean War and then built a career at Ryan Aeronautical.  She worked there her whole life.  “I would have ruined my career if I had changed sex earlier,” she explains.  “Our main client was the U.S. Department of Defense.”  Once she retired, she met people who found themselves in the same situation.  She made her decision at the age of 71, traveling to Thailand for sex reassignment surgery. But even after making their decisions, transsexual seniors face different challenges from their younger peers.  Socially, the pressure may be heavier.  “My friends all knew me as a woman for fifty years,” explains Dominic Don Gatto, a 63-year-old woman who became a man in his late fifties.  “It was hard for some people to accept my transition after having known me for so long.  Many of my lesbian friends didn’t want to see me any more once I became a man.”  Strangers are quick to make judgmental remarks on the street. “The other day, some teenagers pointed at me and burst out laughing,” says Dominic Don Gatto, his arms covered with tattoos.  “People already squint when they see a young trans person; imagine when they come across an old one.” Physically, an older man or woman is also less able to handle a sex change.  The body has become used to inhabiting a gender over the course of decades.  For men, the shoulders will have widened and the voice deepened from years of exposure to testosterone.  “They also lose hair on their heads and have more body hair,” explains Vanessa Fabbre.  “It is more difficult for them to pass as women after a certain age.” Monica Prata, a trained makeup artist, has made this challenge her career, as a consultant for men wanting to become women.  “One of the biggest challenges is teaching them to wear clothing appropriate for their age,” she says.  “You can’t wear a miniskirt or too much makeup when you’re seventy years old.” The medical risks are also higher.  “An older person will take longer to recover from an operation,” says Marci Bowers, a surgeon who specializes in sex changes.  “Once the genitals are modified, a senior patient will have more difficulty regaining sensation in their sexual organs.  It is not impossible for them to have orgasms after the operation, but it is more complicated.”  Many patients are also wary of the effects of hormones at that age: “I recently decided to lower my testosterone dose,” explains Dominic Don Gatto, who sports a light beard on his smooth cheeks.  “I worry too much about getting cancer or high blood pressure.” The combined cost of cosmetic surgery, electrolysis, sex reassignment surgery, hormones and clothing changes can also take a toll on older people’s finances.  Patricia Harrington, a tall blonde 63-year-old woman with laughing eyes, was ruined by her transition.  “I used all my savings to pay for my operations,” says the former programmer.  “I have no money left for retirement.  I will work to the end of my life.”  In contrast, a young trans person will have more time to restore their financial health. The same bell tolls for Lorna, a 72 year old former piano teacher who underwent her final operation a year ago.  “In total, it cost me $400,000,” explains this thin, chic grande dame.  “I saved for fifty years for this.” Little by little the situation improves.  Today, ten states in the U.S. require health insurance companies to cover costs related to transition.  When celebrities like Bruce Jenner discuss the issue, that may draw public attention to the problem.  “What she did is fantastic,” says Stephanie Battaglino.  “She has become a spokesperson for all transgender seniors.” General News Media Translation At the age of 70, they chose to change their sex As I noted in my linguistics blog on Saturday night, there have been several comparisons between Rachel Doležal’s claiming of a black identity and transgender identity claims, and lots of articles condemning any such comparison.  Most of those have been faith-based, along the lines of “Their god can’t be the true god, because it says in our holy book that our God is the true one.”  But I study transgender phenomena from a skeptical point of view,  and I’ve noticed some important commonalities.  Of course race and gender are not the same thing, but we deal with them in similar enough ways that one can be a mirror to the other. You want to dissolve stereotypes …by wearing a black turtleneck in your artist publicity shot?On Saturday I noted the contrast between the absence of African American English features in Doležal’s speech and the numerous African American features in her appearance, most strikingly of course her hair.  I compared it to the many transgender people I know who have spent long hours and serious cash on their visual appearance with no thought given to how they sound.  Now, for a non-linguistic angle, I’m going to talk about being sexy. Maybe I’m reading the wrong blogs (or the right ones), but after three days I haven’t come across anyone talking about how sexy Doležal is.  This is funny, because most women in the public eye (and most who aren’t) are subject to constant commentary about their attractiveness – or lack thereof.  Here I am looking at her cleavage-baring blouses, her tight pants and tailored jackets, and her curve-accentuating heels, and everyone’s sticking to the script: skin tone and hair.  It’s surreal. When I went looking tonight, I did find two insightful comments that articulated what I was also thinking.  An anonymous commenter on the “Toddler” section of the YouBeMom forum, of all places, wrote, “Rachel Dolezal was an awkward looking white woman and is now attractive as a light skinned black woman. Say what you will about her lies but her new skin and hair suit her.”  Writer Calaya Reid had a much longer take which is worth reading in full, but here’s the key part, invoking Jessica Care Moore: “Maybe she’s trying to tap into her Black girl juice. Maybe she’s admitting what everyone knows and what everyone seems to want you to forget — that there’s a power to this thing of being a Black woman. That there’s some wizardry, some cosmic brilliance to this skin you’re in. There really is Black girl juice.” I should note that I’ve only seen five or six pictures of “white” Doležal, and she was pretty young in most of them.  “Awkward” wasn’t the word that came to mind, but I was definitely thinking “demure.”  The publicity photo she used right after she graduated Howard in 2002 was a bit more sophisticated, but really didn’t do much to counter the impression of being a well-brought up Christian girl from Montana. I’m not sure I need to say this, but it is definitely possible to be sexy as a white woman with straight blonde hair.  You may have seen a few on television.  Superficially it seems like it would be easier for her to go with her natural assets, but Doležal chose to dye and perm her hair to be a sexy black woman with utterly unnatural “natural hair.”  Why? I get the impression Doležal is her own hairdresser, so only she knows for sure.  But here’s where her actions feel familiar to me as a transgender person, and as a transvestite in particular.  Because I only feel like I know how to be sexy as a woman.  I know what clothes flatter my body, and what makeup and hairstyle go with the clothes to make a sexy look.  As a guy, I only go with what people tell me, but I never know if I’m doing it right.  I constantly feel like I’m fumbling in the dark. I could be totally off-base with this, but I get the feeling that Doležal feels like she only knows how to be sexy as a black woman.  She knows not just the hair and the clothes, but the jewelry and the eyebrows.  And when she’s tried to make it work as a blonde woman, she never knows if she’s doing it right. The irony here is that if I achieve any actual sexiness as a woman, it’s superficial and it never attracts anyone that I actually want to attract.  Sometimes it looks good in still photos, but I’ve been told by people whose opinion I trust that in person it feels false and disconnected from my true self, not necessarily because of gender.  Meanwhile, I have on some occasions managed to be sexy as a guy, usually just by being able to relax, to be myself and to own my true sexuality.  Of course, nobody can tell you how to act natural. Again, I feel the same way when I watch videos of Rachel Doležal.  The moment she moves, the moment she opens her mouth, the sexy black professor disappears and I see a scared white girl hiding inside.  A profoundly unsexy scared white girl.  But I hope that for her sake, she has also managed at times to relax, and to be as truly sexy as I have been.  It’s a beautiful feeling. Actions Articles Feelings passing The black sex appeal of Professor Doležal Mike Silver: Yo Myron!  Wow, dude, I had no idea. Myra Breckenridge: I’m not Myron. Mike Silver: Sorry, man, I get it.  Myra.  You look way hotter than you did as Myron. Myra Breckenridge: I never was Myron.  Who’s Myron? Mike Silver: Whoa, sorry, bear with me.  Yeah, you were always Myra inside.  I felt it, man!  There was always something girly about you, even that time when we snuck under the bleachers to look up Emma Liu’s skirt. Myra Breckenridge: No, you don’t-  I’m not-  Fuck! Mike Silver: ???  Anyhoo, some people are worried on your wall. Myra Breckenridge: How’d you find me, Mike? Mike Silver: fb asked me to tag you in your profile pic Grayden Liu: Hey Myra, your trans too?  You look awesome!  Did you get your hormones at the Eastdale clinic?  I’m so jealous!  They have a wait list for trans men. Myra Breckenridge: What?  Emma Liu?  !!! Myra J. Breckenridge:  You fucker!  Identity thief!  You know how long I was on the phone with Banana Republic trying to get my rewards points back?  If I ever track you down I’m gonna kikk your ass! Steve Daniels:  Wow, u are a hot tranny!  so feminine.  still have ur dick?  That’s how I like it!  are u on Grindr? Stephanie Ridgenbreck: Myron?  Mike Silver posted that he found you.  Don’t do this to me again, Myron!  I mean Myra!  Bear with me, sweetie.  I’ll get it right eventually!  Come back, we’ll go shopping with Jen at Target! Myra Breckenridge: I always hated shopping with Jen as a boy, mom.  Why would it be better as a girl? Laverne Cox:  I welcome our sister Myra Breckenridge to Facebook and wish her luck in her acting career.  But while her struggles are significant, we must remember the pervasive violence and discrimination  that trans women of color face daily. Jordan DiGiulio:  Hey Myra you look GORGEOUS!  Mike Silver told me you transitioned, but I didn’t believe it.  Your skin is flawless!  I’m so jealous. Myra Breckenridge:  Coming from you, Jordan, that is quite a compliment! You were always the most popular girl in tenth grade.  How are the kids? Jordan DiGiulio: Aw, you’re so sweet!  Anyway, here’s this BuzzFeed article that made me think of you Myra Breckenridge: The one about the women in Kyrgyzstan who wear “Man hats” when they pick apples?  Yeah, I saw that one back in October. Jordan DiGiulio:  I bet you can totally relate! Myra Breckenridge: Oh, totally. Jordan DiGiulio:  I mean, gender! Myra Breckenridge: Thanks for thinking of me!  Justin Haripaul: Hey Myra!  You look great!  Why didn’t you tell me about this? Myra Breckenridge: Oh Justin, I didn’t think you’d understand. Justin Haripaul: Listen, you’re my friend and I’m there for you.  We’ll make things work for you in New York.  You didn’t need to run away! Myra Breckenridge:  You’re so sweet! Justin Haripaul: Where in California are you?  Samantha and I will get a flight out there.  We want to make sure you’re safe. Myra Breckenridge: I’m actually not in California. Justin Haripaul:  Huh?? Where are you? Myra Breckenridge:  Hackensack, right near the Anderson Ave station Justin Haripaul: Hackensack? Myra Breckenridge:  This is as far as I could get without showing ID Actions Articles Fiction Selections from the Facebook chats of Myra Breckenridge I’ve always been disturbed by the idea of transgender surgery, and of surgery relating to appearances in general.  Part of it is because surgery is generally icky, part is because it’s objectively dangerous, and part is because there are doubts about how effective it is at helping us to deal with our transgender feelings.  There are situations where most of us would agree that surgery is ineffective or not worth the risk.  I’ve met some people – trans and not trans, of all genders – with facial features that are clearly artificial, unattractive, and worse-looking than if they had just left things the way they were. Surgery is also expensive.  This means that making cosmetic surgery the norm – whether for trans people or for large segments of the population at large, as I’ve heard it is in places like California, Korea and Venezuela – gives an advantage to people who can better afford it. While I have no interest in getting any such surgery, there are a few things that have made me more comfortable with the idea for other people, and in general. The first was a discussion I had with some friends in grad school.  One guy told a story about a time when he was driving home from work late at night, overtired, and blacked out and hit a telephone pole.  The impact split his face open, but surgeons were able to reconstruct it.  I was shocked, because I had no idea that anything had happened to him.  He told me that his beard helped to hide the scars.  At that point I realized the value of that kind of surgery: it had spared him a lifetime of disfigurement. Another was the realization that I have in fact had cosmetic facial surgery, on a small scale.  In the past I’ve been complimented for having a youthful, feminine face, but I thought that was all luck of the genes.  Then one day I read that the width of a person’s mouth is a major factor when people judge a face to be a man’s or a woman’s. When I was a kid I had crooked teeth, basically because there wasn’t enough room in my mouth for all of my teeth.  When I was fifteen my mom took me to get braces, but my orthodontist said that before he put them on I had to get four bicuspids removed so that all the teeth could line up.  So he sent me to an oral surgeon.  It’s certainly not what most people think of as surgery: the procedure took about an hour, and the anesthetic was just a relatively high dose of novocain.  (The oral surgeon offered me a valium, but I declined.) But removing four large, healthy adult teeth and then sewing up the gums was a fairly major procedure for dental work.   If I had not had those teeth removed, I would probably have had to have my wisdom teeth removed a few years later, but all my teeth together would probably also have taken up more space, giving me a wider mouth and a more masculine appearance, and maybe even making my jaw grow bigger than it has.  So I believe the result was some permanent facial … not exactly “feminization,” but anti-masculinization. As I said, surgery is generally icky, and dangerous, but there are some times when it is clearly life-saving, like an appendectomy.  I think most of us can agree that it was also good that surgeons were able to reconstruct my grad school friend’s face so that people didn’t grimace when they saw him.  On the other hand, even in circumstances like those there are people who would not care about the grimacing and would choose the minimum amount of surgery to be able to physically function, and forgo anything beyond that. It is important to recognize that when people choose to have cosmetic surgery, they are often not acting rationally.  They may be under a mistaken belief that the surgery will satisfy a glamour longing that they feel.  They may be addicted to the danger, or to the excitement of a new image.  Their minds may be clouded by gender fog.  Many people are not well-informed of the risks of surgery – even the simple risk that what they get may not look very good, or may not age well. The bottom line is that adults should be free to choose what kind of surgery is done to modify their bodies, and children should be allowed to make reasonable modifications that they are not likely to regret in the future.  Part of living in a free country is giving people the freedom to act irrationally, or in rational ways that are beyond our understanding. Actions Articles Icky surgeries Body dysphoria is a feeling that there is something wrong with the configuration of the body, apart from any documented physical conditions.  It is often contrasted with simple gender dysphoria, but some people instead portray gender dysphoria as a symptom of the same underlying condition.  As I wrote a few years ago, there is an argument that body dysphoria is an innate “medical condition” deserving special protection.  In that post I discussed multiple cases of body dysphoria appearing in adulthood, which contradict the idea that it is always innate. So if not everyone with body dysphoria is born with it, how did those people get it?  There is an alternative explanation for body dysphoria, based on the theory of semantic frames, that body dysphoria arises when gender dysphoria and transgender desire interact with the world.  There is no reason to believe any of them are innate. I also want to note that body dysphoria seems to be frequently triggered by the presence of others, or at least by people imagining how others would see them.  The symptoms of body dysphoria – shock and distress – bear a strong resemblance to the feelings that many people feel when they are misgendered – classified by gender in a way that contradicts their intentions.  The explanation that I give for body dysphoria also explains the reactions to misgendering.  In fact, they are the same reaction, only with different triggers. The way I’ve presented the concept in the past is that body dysphoria is a feeling of discomfort with the body, specifically the idea that there is something wrong with the body, that the way it appears is not the way it truly is or should be.  By contrast, I’ve defined gender dysphoria as a discomfort with gendered expectations imposed by other people. I’ve also tried to separate gender dysphoria from transgender desire, the desire to be seen and accepted as a member of a different gender.  Many people experience all three feelings, but some people only experience one.  What are frames? Cognitive psychologists have a theory that in our minds we organize a lot of our information about the world in frames, collections of information often tied to particular situations.  (Some prefer the term “schema” or “script,” which can have slightly different meanings, but the central idea is the same.)  The classic example is the restaurant frame, which contains objects like a door, tables and forks; people like a host, servers and cooks; and actions like ordering, eating and paying.  Frames are activated in our minds by direct experience, such as seeing the entrance to a restaurant, or the mention of certain words. As I wrote in my linguistics blog, we use frames to choose between multiple potential meanings.  If we have the restaurant frame activated, we are likely to see a particular image in our minds when we hear a sentence like “She put a check on the table.”  But if instead someone has activated the bank frame in our minds, we get a very different picture, and the spreadsheet frame gives us a completely different image. Frames are a way of understanding our expectations for a particular situation.  Some elements of a frame are optional: a restaurant may not have liquor for sale, or large windows, but many do.  If a restaurant has no website, or seating, or gas lines, we find it worth telling other people about.  And what kind of restaurant doesn’t have restrooms or water, or make sure their cups and plates are clean, or serve steak or cheeseburgers or baked potatoes? Victor Raskin has a great book (and a shorter article) using frames to explain humor.  He observes that most successful jokes activate one frame during the setup and then abruptly reveal that the true frame is actually a different one.  The shock of the frame change makes us laugh.  You can try this yourself with one of my favorite jokes, “A guy walks into a bar and says ‘Ow.’” There is a similar dynamic at work in horror stories, political persuasion and many other genres of communication that rely on shocking the audience. First set the stage by providing enough details to invoke certain frames, then allow the audience to imagine the remaining details from those frames.  Finally, reveal details that tell the audience that the frames they have activated are wrong, along with many of the details they have filled in based on those frames. Frames vary and change It’s important to note here that the shock and/or discomfort arises from the clash between two frames.  The first frame must be properly activated, or there is no shock.  This is why so many people recognize the importance of the setup for jokes, horror and persuasive rhetoric. It’s also important to note that while creating frames may be innate, the contents and organization of those frames is learned throughout the lifetime.  And although most frames and their main elements are generally shared among many people in a society, there is wide variation across people and groups, as well as change over time.  To go back to the restaurant frame, when I was little the only restaurants that had televisions were sports bars, but now they are common in many other restaurants.  Pubs (a subclass of restaurant that inherits many of the features of restaurants) in the United States almost always have a server taking orders at the table, but in pubs in the United Kingdom, the common expectation is that customers will order at the bar.  An American joke based on customers ordering at their table would not work as well in Great Britain, and vice versa. Frames are sometimes formed and changed by instruction, but more often by repeated experiences, as well as salient experiences.  An American who goes to a pub in Great Britain may have read in a guidebook about ordering at the bar, but they will eventually get in the habit of it.  It may take several experiences of waiting at the table to revise their frame, or one particularly unpleasant experience.  They may find themselves ordering at the bar when back in the US, or forgetting again on a subsequent visit to the UK, and eventually create a separate “British pub” subframe. Frames for bodies Frames help us to organize all our experience and expectations, so it shouldn’t be surprising that they organize our experiences of our bodies as well as other people’s bodies.  When frames involve people being seen and making contact, they encode expectations about those people’s bodies. We even have frames just for bodies, with their own set of expectations.  Just as we would be shocked if we went into a fancy restaurant and there were no chairs or napkins, or if there was a giant television showing game shows, many of us are shocked to encounter bodies with less than two arms, or more than two ears. These body frames can vary and change just like frames for places or situations.  When large numbers of people needed limbs amputated during World War I, the people around them became more accustomed to bodies with amputated limbs.  People expect adults to be a certain height in Norway or Kenya, and a different height in Guatemala or Japan. The shock of unexpected body features explains the entertainment value of “the reveal” of unexpected features of other people’s bodies, such as hairlessness that was covered by a wig, a skin condition covered by makeup, a missing limb, even sometimes a different color skin – or in fiction, horns, fangs or lizard skin.  It also explains people’s shock at encountering a penis on someone taking off a dress, or a vagina on someone with a beard.  This shock is a major reason why trans people are so often the punch lines in jokes – and the monsters in horror movies. After the shock, there is also often a further readjustment of understanding and expectation, which often produces longer-lasting distress.  In one well-known film (can it be spoiled at this point?) the main character falls in love with a person in a dress and is then shocked when his lover reveals a penis to him.  He later goes back to the club where he watched her sing, and notices other details that make him recategorize it as a drag bar.  If he loves her, does this mean he has to recategorize himself as a gay man?  What does this mean for his life? Frames and transgender feelings Now let’s imagine someone who experiences gender dysphoria or transgender desire.  Some people go through life feeling one or both of these feelings, and never do anything about it.  Some change their appearance to fit their image of their desired gender, for example through clothes, hair or hormones, but only for their own eyes (or other senses).  Some change their appearance and then interact with other people. Based on my own experiences and many conversations with others, it is common for people to develop feelings of body dysphoria after changing their appearance and interacting with others.  This brings me to Lydia K.’s famous analogy between body dysphoria and failed Unix startup messages: sd 7:0:0:1: Attached scsi generic Phallus sg3 type 0 sd 7:0:0:1: [sdb] Attached Phallus sd 7:0:0:1: [sdb] hardware not supported, using generic driver, partial support only sd 7:0:0:1: [sdb] Write cache: enabled, read cache: enabled, doesn't support DPO or FUA UDP: short packet: From 205.121.32.10:53 1032/43 to 65.28.7.175:23117  The descriptions that people like Lydia K and others give of body dysphoria – looking for particular features, failing to find them, and raising an alarm – are identical to what cognitive psychologists say happens when one frame is invalidated and replaced with another.  It seems likely that the person has established a frame for bodies of their target gender that include specific sex characteristics.  When those body parts are not found (or unexpected parts are encountered) they are forced to invalidate that frame, producing a mental shock. Imagine a person acting out of transgender desire, for example someone who’s been seen as a man all her life but wants others to see her as a woman.  If she perceives a penis and invalidates a female body frame, that implies that she can’t even see herself as a woman, so how could she expect others to classify her as a woman?  It’s clear why this would be very upsetting. Now imagine a person motivated by gender dysphoria, for example someone who has been seen as a woman in the past, but desperately wants to not be seen as a woman.  If they perceive a feature such as broad hips that is only compatible with their female body frame, that invalidates any other gendered frame and implies that they have failed to escape from being perceived as a woman.  Again, it makes sense why they would be upset. Third, imagine a person who has just been misgendered.  He has told his friends and family that he is a guy, and they use the name and pronouns he requested.  He has been out shopping with a friend, wearing a binder with slicked-back hair, and been called “sir.”  Then they go to a restaurant, where the server greets them with “Hello ladies!”  He is shocked by the greeting, and then feels awful. This person has established a frame for “guy in a restaurant,” and put himself in the role of the guy, with all the expectations that go with it.  When the server says “ladies,” that invalidates the frame and imposes one of “lady in a restaurant.”  Whether he is acting out of gender dysphoria or transgender desire, or both, this frustrates his efforts and leaves him feeling like a failure. In fact, we can think of body dysphoria as a form of unintentional self-misgendering.  Remember that body dysphoria happens more frequently, and with greater distress, when the person knows – or even imagines – that someone else is present. Instead of being triggered by someone else’s words, it is triggered by their imagined words, or thoughts.   Why this matters If frames are learned and then activated, this explains how body dysphoria can develop later in life.  In order to experience the shock of the frame switch and the resulting distress, they must first have activated a frame with a space marked for their target gender, and put themselves in that space. This frame activation is not automatic.  To the contrary, the intensity of the shock people experience is related to what they expect to perceive, and the level of distress they feel is connected to the implications they draw from the new frame.  These expectations and interpretations are not under complete conscious control, but as we have seen in individual cases, they can change in response to changes in circumstances, and even in response to changes in beliefs and attitudes. This also offers a potential way to avoid, or at least minimize, the distress associated with body dysphoria and misgendering. If the severity of the shock comes from violated expectations, we can look to anticipate and manage our expectations, and those of other people  If the depth of distress comes from contemplating the implications of a particular frame, we can anticipate that and avoid situations where the implications might be too distressing. What does it mean to manage expectations?  For one thing, it means spending time around people who know and understand trans bodies and clothes, and asking our loved ones to familiarize themselves with trans bodies and clothes. Managing expectations also means taking time on a regular basis to try and see our bodies as others might see them.  It means asking people we trust to filter their opinions less.  I know this can be distressing, but it’s a lot less distressing in small doses with friends, under circumstances where we have more control. How can we avoid distressing situations?  We can think ahead when we are planning an activity.  What could happen if someone notices this body part, or realizes that I don’t have that body part?  What could happen if someone misgenders me?  Am I prepared to deal with this? For people who have made up their minds to transition, managing expectations and avoiding distressing situations means planning your transition carefully.  Some people I know like to play it by ear, telling people on a case-by-case basis and letting hormones change their bodies.  This is nice in theory, but often leads to dysphoria. For people who haven’t decided, this means being aware that experimentation can have serious consequences.  If you’re aiming to determine what will help you deal with your current level of dysphoria, it’s important to avoid increasing your level of dysphoria.  That in turn means choosing your experiments carefully, and keeping the framing dynamic in mind when interpreting your experiences. For people who have decided not to transition, this means being aware of what practices might increase your level of dysphoria, and finding activities that avoid both repression and dysphoria.  I talk more about that in my long post on The Slippery Slope. The bottom line is this: we can’t control dysphoria, but we can anticipate and manage it to a significant degree.  Every trans person needs to know this and keep it in mind. Articles Beliefs Feelings passing Dysphoria, misgendering and semantic frames One thing jumped out at me from Bruce Jenner’s ABC interview about his transgender feelings, beliefs and actions: he has been wearing women’s clothes in private for over fifty-five years.  I noticed this when I listened to Lana Wachowski’s speech to the Human Rights Campaign, and even when I read interviews with Richard O’Brien.  All three described being fascinated with women’s clothes since childhood.  Why didn’t they feel comfortable telling anyone about it before they started taking hormones and wearing women’s clothes in public? Let me be clear: I am not blaming Jenner, Wachowski or O’Brien; they are completely entitled to their choices.  I can understand people not wanting to talk about a private aspect of their life, and nobody is required to talk to the media about their transgender feelings or beliefs if they don’t want to, no matter how famous they are.  Actor, director, sports star, stepfather to reality television superstars, everyone has a right to privacy. I can understand people not wanting to discuss their life plans before they’re finalized.  If someone is planning to go back to school for their MD, or move to Portland, or live the rest of their life as a woman, they need to figure out how to do what’s right for themself while honoring their obligations to family and friends.  It may take a long time to do that, and they don’t need to tell anyone. And yet, Jenner and Wachowski are just two in a long line of trans women who talk about wearing women’s clothes in secret for years before declaring their gender transitions.  (O’Brien is a bit different: he made his feelings and beliefs pretty clear in his plays and movies.)  There are hardly any famous trans women who feel comfortable talking about their feelings or actions while deciding whether to transition, let alone wearing women’s clothes in public.  And among those famous trans women who have decided not to transition, very few are out about it in any way. For me, as someone who decided long ago not to transition, the support that these declarations receive from some quarters rings a bit hollow.  Often it feels like people are cheering the transition more than expressing support for people who have trans feelings.  And it makes me wonder: what would they have said in 1995 if Wachowski had simply mentioned in an interview that she was considering transitioning but hadn’t made up her mind?  Or in 1985 if Jenner had told Phil Donohue that he was a cross-dresser?  It makes me wonder: would these people show the same support to someone who chose my path? Would you show the same support to someone who chose my path?  Would you want to know about my transgender feelings, regardless of what I do about them?  Would you defend me against discrimination?  Would you support my right to use bathrooms consistent with my gender expression, even if my gender expression changes from day to day? If so, please tell the world.  Say it louder.  Because I don’t think Bruce Jenner heard you. Actions Allies Articles Media The closet Transgender, and 55+ years in the closet In 2013 I wrote about how I and many other people sometimes interact with the world as a woman, and sometimes as a man.  Some people are very uncomfortable with this.  They may accept the idea that a person is “really” a different gender inside, or that they have to live as a different gender, but they want everyone to transition and get it over with.  They hate the idea that someone could be a man one day and a woman the next and a man again the following day, or even both simultaneously. I puzzled over this for years, but I think I’ve figured out now why some people are violently opposed (many of them quite literally) to the idea of someone being both a man and a woman.  It is because they see the two categories as not just incompatible but as antagonists, even enemies.  It is because they see men as predators and women as prey. Our culture has many metaphors based on this model.  We talk about sexual predators (the vast majority of them are men), men being out on the prowl, women as trophies and feathers in caps.  We talk about the chase and about the thrill of the hunt.  There are other metaphors where women are valuable prizes won by men, and in the other direction where men are fish or bears, and women are trying to catch them with nets and traps, but the ones where men are hunting women are more common. These metaphors are not created out of thin air.  In my first grade class a common pastime of the boys was to have “girl chases” (I boycotted them on principle, so I don’t know what happened if a boy ever caught a girl).  When I was a teenager I learned from movies and songs that getting a pretty girl – or at least having a pretty girl say that she liked him – was one of the main goals in life, and a way that a boy could get people to like and respect him. I have known people who really do relate to the other primary gender in those terms most of the time.  I’ve known men whose first reaction on meeting a woman is to size her up as a potential mate.  Those who are suitable they pursue, and if they catch them they may use them and drop them. Those who are not suitable they try to ignore, or to relate to as “one of the guys.” If that fails, they are often at a loss. Similarly, I have known women who evaluate all men as potential threats.  Those who turn out to be threats they may run away from, or grit their teeth and try to bear it.  Those who are not threats they try to ignore, or dismiss as annoying boys.  If that fails, they are similarly at a loss. Some women reject the idea that trans people who were raised male can be women, but are occasionally willing to make an exception for passable trans women with lots of female socialization – provided that they transition, get rid of as much of their maleness as possible, and then stay transitioned.  If we spend any time as men, we’re automatically disqualified.  This makes sense if they are thinking of us as predators: we can’t be simultaneously predators and prey, so we must be wolves in sheep’s clothing. Similarly, men who attack trans women seem to do so when they feel attracted, but there is some unmistakable sign of the trans woman’s maleness.  This also can be understood (not excused, of course) if they are thinking of men as predators and women as prey.  Just when they think they have caught their prey and begin to let their guard down, she turns into a predator before their eyes! Anyone who has actually made the effort to relate to people of other genders as human beings knows how superficial this way of thinking is, and how unrewarding.  The reality is that both men and women are people, and every person is a complex individual.  Some are nice and some are not.  But of course, if they’re treating you either like a predator or like prey, you can’t get to know them anyway. Articles Categorization Kludges Patriarchy Predators, prey and gender overlap Remember in 2002 when George Bush assured us that the Iraqis would welcome our invading armies “with open arms”?  When we actually did invade that welcome was a lot less warm. A lot of people wondered what Bush and his cabinet were thinking.  Where did they get that idea?  It’s not like they took a poll of Iraqi citizens living under Saddam’s police state. It turned out that this idea of a grateful, welcoming Iraqi people came from Ahmed Chalabi, an Iraqi exile living in Washington who had regular contact with the US media and Beltway thought leaders.  He hadn’t taken a poll of Iraqis either: his “intelligence” came from what people in his own echo chamber of exiles were saying, with a heavy dose of his own fantasies.  Add in the fantasies of Bush advisers like Condoleeza Rice and Paul Wolfowitz, and we get a disaster of epic proportions that we’re still paying for today. Unfortunately, Ahmed Chalabi’s con was not unique.  There are many Chalabis around the world who tell a compelling story about Their People. How they were victims of the Enemy, unfairly brutalized – and often still are.  How they desperately need help. A big part of that story is You.  You can help, when nobody else will.  You can put an end the injustice.  You can save Their People.  And Their People will love you for it.  They will probably do something nice in return. You can see how seductive this idea was to people like George W. Bush and Paul Wolfowitz.  A friend, whose People were being unjustly treated.  All they have to do is deploy some expensive troops and planes that are sitting around doing nothing, and they can right that wrong, and earn the gratitude of the Iraqi People.  They’ll look good, and earn influence.  What could possibly go wrong? The interesting thing is that some of what Chalabi was saying was the truth.  His people were being victimized, they did appreciate being liberated and restored to their homeland, and they did shower the Bush Administration with favors and grant them influence and access. What went wrong was that Chalabi’s people weren’t the Iraqi people.  If they had been, everything would have gone according to plan (maybe).  But they were only a small subset of the Iraqi people, a narrow slice of the elite.  Most of the rest of the population did appreciate getting rid of Saddam, but they did not like the rest of the invasion and occupation, which was planned without consulting them, and often without acknowledging their existence.  They certainly did not want Chalabi running the country.  So they resisted him, and the occupation. Boy those right wingers sure are stupid, huh?  Nobody on the left would base their political actions on the words of a few friends!  We always take these stories with healthy skepticism.  And our humble left-wing friends would never take their experience and present it as that of an entire group.  Right? Sadly, the left is just as susceptible to our own Ahmed Chalabis as the Bush Administration was.  They’re friends!  They’re victims!  Other people listen to them!  How could we doubt them? Even more sadly, there are many in the transgender world who stoop to Chalabi-style tactics, claiming to speak for the entire community and offering the undying gratitude of all trans people to anyone who uses the proper pronouns and recites the prescribed incantations.  This may work for the people in the roles of Bush and Chalabi, at least for a time, but in the end nobody is really better off, and those of us who do not have access to these wannabe allies are in the worst situation of all. Allies Articles Glamour The lure of fake community leaders Some people believe that there are two kinds of dysphoria: social dysphoria, meaning a discomfort with the social expectations associated with a gender role, and body dysphoria, meaning a discomfort with the awareness of physical sex characteristics. In this worldview (sometimes called “truscum”; the word is adopted as a badge of pride by many people who espouse it), the feeling of body dysphoria separates the true transsexuals from the wannabe “transtrenders.”  It is a “medical condition,” resulting from a mismatch between brain sex and the shape of the body, and the only cure is full hormonal and surgical transition.  Social dysphoria, by contrast, is a malaise resulting from society’s restrictive gender roles, and affects everyone who’s paying attention.  The only cure for this is reforming society to equalize the sexes, and any other response is a waste of time. In the truscum worldview, resources available for trans people are scarce, and the true transsexuals with their medical condition deserve priority over the transtrenders who only experience social dysphoria.  Transtrenders also monopolize media time and attention, and trivialize transgender problems in people’s minds. This argument rests on two claims: (a) that body dysphoria is qualitatively different from other kinds of gender dysphoria and much more intense, and (b) that body dysphoria is innate – either you have it or you don’t. When I first heard this argument I was skeptical of the first claim.  Does body dysphoria even exist, I wondered?  I couldn’t think of a way it could arise psychologically, so I didn’t really think too much about the claim that it was innate.  Now I’ve not only seen that body dysphoria does exist, but I’ve also seen how it can develop, in fully grown adults who never experienced it before. My friend Claire said she had never felt any dissatisfaction with her body until she transitioned.  But after a significant period of being accepted as a woman, and then a single incident focused on her genitals, she began to experience intense, traumatic body dysphoria.  And she’s not the only one. I’ve heard similar stories from other trans women, and they all have the same pattern: feeling accepted as a woman, thinking of themselves as a woman (with no “trans” qualifier), and having to confront the fact of having male anatomy at a time when it was inconvenient (or worse) to have it. The fact that all of these women were fully grown adults when they first experienced body dysphoria means that there is no way to neatly divide the world into “true transsexuals” and “wannabe transtrenders.”  It doesn’t show that body dysphoria is never innate, but it does prove that it isn’t always innate.  We’re not all born this way. Articles Beliefs Feelings Creating body dysphoria When 17-year-old Leelah Alcorn committed suicide on December 27, she left a note on Tumblr urging action to help trans people like herself: The only way I will rest in peace is if one day transgender people aren’t treated the way I was, they’re treated like humans, with valid feelings and human rights. Gender needs to be taught about in schools, the earlier the better. My death needs to mean something. My death needs to be counted in the number of transgender people who commit suicide this year. I want someone to look at that number and say “that’s fucked up” and fix it. Fix society. Please. Some trans people have responded to Alcorn’s call for action with a petition to ban “the practice known as ‘transgender conversion therapy.'”  Here’s how Alcorn described her therapy experience in an October posting to Reddit found by Cristan Williams: I wanted to see a gender therapist but they wouldn’t let me, they thought it would corrupt my mind. The would only let me see biased Christian therapists, who instead of listening to my feelings would try to change me into a straight male who loved God, and I would cry after every session because I felt like it was hopeless and there was no way I would ever become a girl. I wholeheartedly agree that what Alcorn describes is a disgrace to the therapeutic profession, and that it should be stopped.  The goal of any therapy should be to give the client a place to be heard and respected, to free them from repression, and to help them find the path that works for them.  Biased, faith-based sessions where the only acceptable outcome is determined in advance is inhumane brainwashing, not therapy.  If it takes a law to stop it, I’m in favor. Photo: Barbara B. Shostak, Ph.D. / Flickr. This image is not an endorsement That said, I have concerns about this drive to outlaw all “conversion” and “reparative” therapies.  I want to make sure there is room for the kind of therapy that I want and need: therapy that helps me to live in the gender that I was assigned at birth. As I’ve written before, I feel many of the same feelings that other trans people feel, but believing in a gender identity goes against my skepticism, and many years ago I chose not to transition.  Over the years, with the help of several therapists and the support of friends and family, I have succeeded in losing a lot of my repression, but I still have to deal with those transgender feelings, and I will probably need to see therapists, at least occasionally, for the rest of my life. My therapists have been supportive of my decision not to transition, and I am confident that if someone came to them wanting to transition, they would be similarly supportive of their decisions.  Unlike the therapists hired by Alcorn’s parents, my therapists listen to me, and respect me. I’ve never been to a gender therapist.  From what I’ve seen and heard – from the therapists themselves as well as from other trans people – there are very few who have any idea how to help someone like me who’s decided not to transition.  While they may pay lip service to the idea of not transitioning, they seem to see their job as helping trans people jump through the hoops necessary for transition.  What happens if a trans person changes their mind about transition – or decides to detransition?  Are they simply declared to be “not really trans after all,” and left to fend for themselves? Gender therapy is better than “conversion” therapy, because it doesn’t impose anything that the client doesn’t want, and it’s better than the “gatekeeping” practices that were prevalent for the late twentieth century, but it is still a biased situation where the only acceptable outcome is determined in advance. We trans people need therapy, and we deserve a range of options where we can find support for the path we choose.  We do not need therapy that is just another way for parents to repress us, as Leelah Alcorn described her “Christian” therapy.  But we do need support for those of us who have chosen to live without transitioning. Actions Articles Beliefs General News Media Violence Unethical therapy Radical feminists have been critical of transgender beliefs and actions for years, going back at least to Janice Raymond in 1979.  Trans people have had various responses to these critiques, from acceptance to outright demonization, and sometimes including substantive, thoughtful critiques of radical feminism.  Frequently, arguments between trans activists and radfems degenerate into vicious name-calling and worse. Third Way Trans has a compelling explanation for these fights: “this debate is not really about a scientific question, but it is about an emotional need, and both groups contain a lot of people that have been traumatized, particularly by men, and both need safety. However, these needs are also fundamentally incompatible in some ways which leads to the current impasse.” I’m not interested in getting into arguments where either side is dehumanizing the other, so I’ve generally avoided the issue.  At one point I did try to make common ground with some FTMTF detransitioners, but when those conversations turned into dehumanizing attacks on me I gave up.  I found out last night that back in January the radical feminist blog GenderTrender reposted an entire post of mine without asking or telling me, for the sole purpose of mocking me and other trans people.  The thing is that there are certain aspects of the radfem critique of trans beliefs that I agree with, and others that I find at least thought-provoking.  I am open to discussions with people who are willing to show me basic respect and empathy, not scream at me and definitely not laugh at me behind my back. Joel Nowak, a MFTM “retransitioner,” is someone I respect and doesn’t do dehumanizing, so I took it seriously when he recommended the website of Ms. Hell Bedlam.  Sadly, after reading Hell Bedlam’s site, I found it to be just as essentialist and dehumanizing as all the other radfem critiques, even if it does have the advantage of succinctly stating all the main points in a single location. I had a hard time getting across to Joel the main thing that bothered me about Hell Bedlam’s site.  After all, she says that she doesn’t hate the good transsexuals!  I’m not one of those misogynistic essentialists who wants to speak over feminists, so why should I take offense?  No, I’m not.  I’m not the target of Ms. Hell Bedlam’s rage at all.  I’m something much worse to her: I’m what she accuses the “anti-feminist trans activists” of secretly being: one of those “middle class white males with a cross-dressing fetish and great love for their penises,” a “be-penised cross-dresser.” Wait, you may be saying.  I thought Hell Bedlam’s site was all about trans woman who claim the right to unilaterally change the language and talk over feminists.  What do cross-dressing, fetishes and penises have to do with these things? The answer is nothing, it’s a complete non-sequitur.  From what I can tell, Hell Bedlam brings it into the conversation (along with a long page about Ray Blanchard’s moronic “HSTS/autogynephilic” typology and lots of examples of transvestite erotica) primarily because the two things that upset transgender dogmatists the most are “You’re a fetishist,” and “You’re a MAN!” I am not offended by either claim, because I freely acknowledge that I am both a man and a fetishist.  I love my penis as much as I love my left arm or my right eye, or any other part of me.  But I am offended by being so dehumanized that I’m not even a demon, I’m just the insult that Hell Bedlam uses to hurt the trans dogmatists. Allies Articles Blog news Media Verbal Hygiene When you’re the insult I think the first time I heard the word “transvestite,” it was in the context of the Rocky Horror Picture Show.  For years I thought it had nothing to do with me, that any resemblance was purely coincidental.  Now I’m convinced that the movie, and the play that it’s based on, is an insightful examination of transgender feelings and actions. I don’t remember if I had already started sneaking into my sister’s room to try on her neglected pantyhose and dresses, or if I had only fantasized about being a pretty girl in makeup and heels.  Either way, it was around the time I turned twelve that my sister told us about a movie she’d gone to see with a friend.  They had shouted and thrown toilet paper at the screen!  It was a wacky movie with singing, dancing and a transvestite! What was a transvestite?  It was a man who dressed up in women’s clothes, they said.  Kind of like the actor my dad told me about – or even like me!  Was this person pretty, or even sexy?  I was curious, but when I tried to find out more it was all about the Frankenstein Place and the Galaxy of Transylvania and people named Meat Loaf and Columbia.  The soundtrack that my sister started playing didn’t help me at all. Finally, we visited some friends of the family who had a weird book adaptation, illustrated with copious stills from the movie, like one of those Tumblr gif sets except the pictures didn’t move.  I snuck off and perused it, eager to see what a transvestite looked like. I honestly didn’t know what to make of the character of Dr. Frank N. Furter, the mad scientist.  He didn’t pad his breasts, his makeup looked like clown makeup, and what did he have on his legs? Was he wearing some kind of shorts over his tights? Eventually I learned about fishnets and garter belts, and then I figured out what I was seeing.  But I still didn’t find Dr. Frank remotely sexy, let alone pretty.  I filed the Rocky Horror Picture Show under Weird Cross-dressing Things I Can’t Relate To.  This file went in the drawer with the file of Weird Relationship Things I Can’t Relate To, and Weird Political Things I Can’t Relate To. Like a bunch of things in that drawer, several years later I had a chance to take Rocky Horror out of the file and examine it.  And several years after that I took it out again, and now it doesn’t seem so foreign to me.  I’ll talk more about that in future posts. Articles Media Unsweet transvestites My friend Claire is a trans woman who graciously agreed to share her story for this blog. For most of her life she had no body dysphoria.  “The funny thing is in the very beginning, I didn’t care,” she told me of her male anatomy.  But then things changed.  “I transition and the only thing I want is it gone.” Claire began her transition in 2013, and by most measures she was wildly successful.  For a trans woman of color, even more so.  Her family and friends did not reject her and got her new name and pronouns right most of the time.  Her small business continued to prosper, and her customers all took her transition in stride.  “Everything came easy to me in transition and coming out, so I lived in a world where no one knew unless I told them.” Even after transition, she didn’t mind her genitals at first, but she began to grow dissatisfied with them.  And then something happened that brought about a drastic change in her feelings. Earlier this year, Claire went on a vacation with her new boyfriend.  They had a great time, and everyone treated Claire as a woman.  “I forget that I’m actually trans at times,” she told me.  Then when it came time to board the plane home, the TSA was performing pat-downs on all the women at that checkpoint.  She thought nothing of it until the screener discovered a bulge. The TSA screener had apparently never patted down a trans woman, and was unsure of the protocol, but Claire reassured her that she was indeed a woman and belonged there with all the other women.  Eventually the screener let Claire fetch her driver’s license from her purse, completed the search and allowed her into the boarding area. “She did everything right,” Claire says.  And yet, Claire was traumatized by the incident.  She started crying, and despite her boyfriend’s best efforts to comfort her, she couldn’t stop.  She locked herself in a bathroom stall until the last minute, and then boarded the plane home.  On the plane she sobbed into a pillow to avoid disturbing other passengers, and cried until she fell asleep. That was just the beginning.  “Months of depression and suicidal tendencies from just one experience,” Claire says.  Significantly, she developed intense body dysphoria, focused on her genitals, which she still feels months later.  “I really despise that thing but I know I have to live with that. For the mean time.”  She says that she is currently feeling better, but she doesn’t know if the depression will return. Claire’s story, and similar ones I’ve heard from other people, have important implications for all trans people, and I will discuss it further in future posts, but for this post I want to let it stand by itself. Articles Feelings passing Claire’s story When I was a kid my dad, who was a sound engineer, told me how he had worked on a movie with an actress who was really a man.  I believe those were the words he used.  He said, “She looked and sounded just like a woman, but she had to take a break and shave around five o’clock.” It’s hard to know how much things like this affect your thoughts, but the story stuck with me, and it was probably swimming around in my head when I started thinking that life might be a lot easier if I didn’t correct people when they thought I was a girl.  It went in there with Holly Woodlawn’s cross-country gender change in “Walk on the Wild Side,” Princess Ozma, a girl named Patrice in my elementary school who bore an uncanny resemblance to a boy named Donavan at my summer camp, Bugs Bunny, and any number of madcap comedies where a boy disguises himself as a girl. Years later, after I developed a habit of wearing women’s clothes and came out to my father about it, I asked him for more details about the movie.  He didn’t remember it quite that way.  It turned out that the actress in question was Candy Darling, an associate of Holly Woodlawn’s in Andy Warhol’s Factory, and the movie was called Some of My Best Friends Are… It was an ensemble piece about gay life in Greenwich Village, set in a single bar on a Christmas Eve, and was released three days before I was born. When the film came out, Vincent Canby unfavorably compared it to The Boys in the Band, which I haven’t seen, while noting that it “may well be more accurate.”  Citizen Kane it ain’t, but it’s not horrible.  Candy Darling’s performance in the film was straight dramatic acting, unlike her campy performances in Warhol’s movies.  And my dad didn’t tell me that she played a transvestite who was attacked for being trans. I looked up Some of My Best Friends Are… last night and discovered that someone had put the scenes with Candy Darling on YouTube.  My dad was right that she did pass well; I was a bit envious.  I was also impressed at how well the director, Mervyn Nelson, captured the feeling of gender fog, even if it was a bit over the top.  But I found the bashing scene very disturbing.  I’ve never been comfortable with movie violence, but the fact that the character Karen was attacked in part for passing so well, in a bar full of men who tried and failed to protect her, was particularly upsetting. Things may be better now than they were in 1971.  More people are out of the closet, and gay bars are probably safer for transvestites, at least for those of us who are white and middle class.  But for those who are poor or nonwhite, things are still dangerous.  At least ten trans women have been killed this year in the United States.  The character of Karen survived being beaten; how many people survived a similar beating this year? If you want to change things, here are two ideas: (1) make sure everyone knows that you don’t think we should be beaten or killed, and (2) leverage intersectionality to make life safer for trans people who are poor, nonwhite, sex workers or perceived as “gay.” Allies Articles Media passing The closet Violence When my dad made a transgender movie You don’t have to hang around the trans world very long to encounter a message like “passability is overrated.”  Many people go further and argue that passing should not be a goal.  Yes, passing is overrated, and it means nothing in itself.  But it does have value for other goals, and right now I want to focus on one goal in particular: credibility. Activism needs credibility.  Activism is all about convincing people.  We want the public to believe that we deserve respect, that we deserve protection from discrimination and hate crimes, that we deserve access to bathrooms and medical care. We also need credibility in our personal lives.  Those of us who transition need others to believe in their transitions, to treat them as their desired gender.  Those of us who don’t transition need others to believe that we can still be responsible members of society, that we should still be loved, and even that we don’t need to transition. It shouldn’t surprise anyone that attractive people have more success at convincing others.  People pay more attention to attractive people (and here I don’t mean just sexually attractive).  They also pay more attention to people who look “like us.”  Maybe you think that’s not fair, it’s not the way things should be, and you’re probably right.  We should work to make the world a more tolerant place.  But there’s no point in ignoring the way that the world currently works. The uncanny valley also turns people off.  That’s the area where people have difficulty processing an image as a person or a thing, or a person or an animal.  It’s also where people have difficulty deciding whether someone is a man or a woman, or “one of us” or one of them.  The squirming depicted in Julia Sweeney’s “It’s Pat” sketches is a real-life occurrence.  Again, maybe that’s not the way the world should be, and maybe we should change it.  But we can’t ignore that the world is that way right now. This is one reason why charismatic, attractive, passable people like Janet Mock and Chaz Bono are so popular as spokespeople for transgender activism.  It’s also why such people are more readily accepted as members of their target gender.  Again, that’s not the way it should be, but it is. Actions Articles Grooming passing Passing and credibility On Facebook someone posted a while ago asking where in Queens there were bars showing RuPaul’s Drag Race.  The answer was a bar called Hombres. At gay bars and other places explicitly marked as male spaces, you’ll often find not just drag fans but drag queens, transvestites and other non-transitioning trans people.  You will also find that when we get home from these spaces we usually take off the makeup and falsies and look a lot like men.  Sometimes we change into guy clothes before we leave the bar.  Sometimes we wear guy clothes the whole time. This guyness extends to other environments.  We usually present as guys at our day jobs, when we’re doing laundry, and when we go hiking.  Interacting with the world as women is a relatively small part of our lives. This is often used by transitioned trans women to deny that we are trans, and thus to deny us a voice in transgender politics.  In 2014 there was a heated debate over who had the right to declare words like “tranny” taboo.  RuPaul and other drag queens saw the words as either not particularly offensive or ripe for reclamation, while a group of transitioners saw them as potent slurs. The transitioners were used to having the upper hand in these verbal hygiene debates by virtue of ideologies of linguistic self-determination, in which only members of a group have standing to determine which  words are appropriate names for the group and its members, and which words are offensive.  But the drag queens had long been considered part of the “transgender umbrella” with equal standing to transitioned trans people. The transitioners’ response was to redefine “trans women.”  Zinnia Jones wrote a petition stating that “Cisgender male drag queens are assigned male at birth, and they neither consider themselves to be women nor live as women in their everyday lives. Unlike trans women, they are not the ones who regularly face the consequences of widespread transphobia and transmisogyny, and they are not confronted with the fallout of normalizing transmisogynist slurs.” It’s highly debatable whether people who regularly go to drag bars face less transphobia than people who are out during the day, but victimhood wasn’t originally part of the definition of transgender, and it shouldn’t be. It’s also not clear that drag queens don’t consider themselves to be women.   I’ve never been to Hombres but if it’s anything like the gay bars I’ve been to, chances are that inside you’ll probably hear all the drag queens, and even some of the more masculine-presenting people, referred to with “she” pronouns and in Spanish, feminine adjectives. This may occasionally be a mockery of femininity, but most of the time it is a response to a simple desire to be classified as women in a particular situation.  Some people have observed that it is relatively common for people to spend months or years living as men and performing in drag shows, and then later transition to living as women, for a variety of reasons. That is only part of the story.  Many drag queens and other trans women have decided that we don’t want to transition.  When people are allowed to be free with our genders, we choose what works for us, from one column or another.  Drag queens go to bars called Hombres and answer to “she.”  I buy nylons for women and razors for men.  I have friends who buy jackets for men and bras for women.  Everyone mixes and matches on some level. So are we transgender?  Are we trans women?  The key fact in my mind is that many of us experience one or both of the key feelings of gender dysphoria (in our case, discomfort living as men) or transgender desire (wanting to live as women).  The fact that we cope with these feelings without adopting a full-time identity as a woman or modifying our bodies does not mean that we don’t feel the feelings. If you force us to choose one gender and stick with it, we will probably say we’re men, and there’s a good reason for it.  We’ve got these bodies and we’re not changing them, and on some level we’re used to living as men.  We probably also know, maybe from firsthand experience, that being a woman is no picnic either. If you know that you’re not going to transition, and you’re going to spend eighty percent, ninety percent of your life or more interacting with the world as a man, and if someone forces you to choose whether to think of yourself as a man or a woman, it makes sense to choose man.  That means your internal self-image and your external self-image match for most of your week. So yes, we call ourselves men, but that is because our binary society pressures us to choose men or women.  It does not mean that we’re always happy being men, and it doesn’t mean that we wouldn’t choose both if we could, or whichever one fits at the time. Actions Categorization Verbal Hygiene The importance of being hombres  Beliefs Categorization Media Patriarchy Predators and prey You’ve heard (I hope) that the vast majority of trans people who are killed are male to female living in poverty, and many are sex workers and immigrants.  Here in the United States, most of the dead are black or Latina, and often both. This is intersectionality at work: if they were just poor, or just female, or just seen as gay, or just nonwhite, or just immigrants, or just employed illegally, or just sex workers, or even just trans, their risk of being murdered would already be higher than a non-trans straight white middle-class legally employed male American citizen. Together, though, these risks multiply, and even reinforce each other: if you’re female, or trans, or nonwhite, or an immigrant, you’re more likely to be poor, and if you’re poor you’re more likely to work in the “informal economy,” including sex work.  If you’ve immigrated in violation of the laws or work in the informal economy you’re under constant threat from law enforcement, and if you’re seen as poor or nonwhite or gay or female, you’re more likely to face discrimination when it comes to police protection and employment.  It’s also harder to get a good education when you’re poor, which makes it hard to get work.  If you can’t get a good job you get poorer, and the cycle continues. A large amount of anti-trans sentiment is related to anti-gay sentiment.  The real solution is not to convince people that MTF trans people and the men who have sex with us aren’t gay, but to make it okay for us to be seen as gay.  It should be like being mistaken for Irish when you’re really Scottish in the US today: a minor inaccuracy that’s annoying at worst. We can use intersectionality to solve these problems too.  If we could bring murder rates for nonwhite, poor and immigrant trans women down to those of white middle-class trans women we’d eliminate most of the killing.  If we could bring the rates for African American trans sex workers down to those of non-trans, non-sex-worker African-American women it would be a huge improvement. With that in mind, here are some intersectional ways to help stop violence against trans people:  Break the cycle of poverty. Adequately fund public education. End racial discrimination.  Enforce equal opportunity laws. Help immigrants. Create an immigration policy that makes our country welcoming again. End sex worker harassment.  End the use of condoms as evidence for prostitution. End violence against women.  Speak out against rape culture and domestic violence.  Examine your own actions for ways that you might commit or condone such violence. End homophobia.  Support respect, dignity and equality for gay men, lesbians and bisexuals.  Which of them is easiest for you to start working on?  Which is hardest? Articles Categorization Violence 6 ways you can use intersectionality to help stop trans murders There have been several times in my life when my transgender desire – my desire to be a woman, even though I was raised to be a man, with a man’s body – has gotten less intense, less frequent, to the point that I thought it might be gone for good. I was tremendously relieved.  I didn’t want to be a transvestite.  I didn’t want a closetful of clothes that could get me mocked and rejected.  I didn’t want to look into my mom’s eyes and see nothing but worry and pity.  I didn’t want to harbor a secret that could get me blackmailed. Twice I purged.  I threw away all the women’s clothes I had collected, painstakingly, sometimes illegally, over the course of years.  I put my past out of my mind.  I no longer had anything to hide.  That part of my life was over. But that part of my life was not over.  What I eventually discovered was that my transgender desires come and go with my gender dysphoria – my discomfort with my life as a man.  When I feel satisfied with my life as a man, my desire to be a woman diminishes.  I will not feel completely satisfied with my life, every day until I die.  And when I am feeling particularly dissatisfied, life as a woman will seem like a great escape. Life as a woman certainly seemed like a great escape when I was twelve.  Of course it isn’t, I know that now.  I learned from listening to women, and a few fleeting, incomplete experiences of living as a woman were enough to drive the point home.  But when I’m feeling trapped and hopeless, the dysphoria returns. As I’ve said before, I don’t think the dysphoria always gets worse.  But it does come back, and with it comes the desire to be a woman, to look like a woman, to dress like a woman.  That’s what happened to me after the two times I purged.  That, in turn, is why I don’t purge any more, and why I don’t ever believe I’ll be “cured.”  If I did purge, I might enjoy some extra closet space for a while, but soon enough I would wind up paying again for expensive clothes and makeup. I actually wouldn’t mind a cure for the trans feelings.  None of them are very pleasant, even the euphoric post-event gratification.  I’m not one of those people who think being trans is a gift.  But I just don’t see it happening.  Some day we may figure out how to prevent it, but I doubt we’ll be able to cure it. Articles Feelings I tried to be cured I was talking with some trans men recently, and they said something to the effect of, “Nobody told me I’d be short!”  Obviously, they knew how tall they were, both on an absolute  scale and relative to the men around them, but they knew it in their heads.  That didn’t really prepare them for the reality of going through life as a short guy.  Similarly, nothing prepared me for the reality of being a tall, overweight woman, for the pain of walking in heels and the discomfort of the male gaze. When I posted about my trans feelings back in January, one response was that I didn’t sound like a woman, that the feelings I wrote about don’t support any claims to “interiority,” and that I have an “outsider perspective.”  The commenter assumed that I would claim this interiority because I identified as a trans woman, but the point of my post was that I don’t claim any kind of interior femininity.  I do have occasional flashes of “insider perspective” on a woman’s life, but they come from the limited time I’ve spent in women’s roles, not from some essential “interiority.” I’ve observed the same thing in other trans people.  The degree of understanding I see in other trans women is proportional to the amount of real experience they have living in the world as women and interacting with others as women.  And no, experience in support groups and “trans women only” spaces doesn’t count.  I’ve never seen any evidence to support claims of inner femininity. Maybe you say that I don’t see their inner femininity because I’m “really a man.”  But think about the transmasculine friends I mentioned above.  You can’t get much more of an outsider perspective than not knowing how short men are treated.  If you believe that these trans men have always been “really men” too, why didn’t they know? Not only do many trans people persist in claiming interior femininity (or masculinity), but many are willing to accept those claims – or even to claim them on behalf of other people.  Not long ago a trans man told me that I was so obviously feminine that I should be making plans to transition.  It wasn’t the first time people have told me that I should transition, or assumed that I’d already transitioned, or even assumed that I was born and raised a woman.  Some have even assumed I was a trans man.  None of them were right.  People are bad judges of this stuff. Even if you believe that trans women are and have always been women, and that trans men are and have always been men, you should be able to accept that many aspects of masculinity and femininity are cultural, and that knowledge of these aspects is very difficult to acquire without direct experience.  Trans men who haven’t lived as men will have an outsider perspective on many aspects of masculinity, and trans women who have never lived as women will have an outsider perspective on many aspects of femininity. Articles Beliefs Categorization Outsider perspective In the past I’ve done verbal hygiene on the words “transgender” and “coming out,” and now I feel like I need to do some on the word “transition.”  I have always thought of transition as meaning that someone takes on a new identity, with a new name and a new presentation, and a new gender marker to go with it.  Almost twenty years ago I decided not to transition, meaning that even though I regularly feel gender dysphoria (a discomfort with living as a man) and transgender desire (a desire to live as a woman), I examined my options and concluded that I wanted to continue living as a man most of the time.  Back then it seemed pretty clear to everyone what transition was, and I chose not to do it. Maybe I’m transitioning to a new Centauri identity…Once in a while when I tell people I’m transgender and out but not transitioning, I get a puzzled reaction about the “not transitioning.”  The first time I recall was about ten years ago from Reid Vanderburgh, but I’ve heard it from several other people since.  The general idea is that everyone’s idea of “transition” is personal.  I can just decide that for me “transition” means not changing much of anything, so then I must have transitioned! I guess this line of thinking is meant in a nice way, but there are a few things that bother me about it.  The first is that it undermines its own claims to respect my definitions.  In this view, I can have any definition of transition I want, as long as I transitioned.  I am not allowed to define transition in such a way that I – or any trans person – have the option to not do it. The second problem is that it erases very real prototype effects.  Maybe Vanderburgh and friends will respect my personal definition of “transition,” but they have no power to compel anyone else to.  Even if people do accept the idea, that means that nobody knows what I mean by “transition” until I tell them. As I understand it, they think that I can talk about “my transition” and everyone will keep an open mind and not make any assumptions about what it entails.  But that’s really not how anyone’s mind works.  We always have an image for any category.  If I mention “my dog,” you’re probably going to imagine a common breed like a yellow Lab or a German Shepherd, or maybe a pit bull or a Maltese if you know city dogs.  If I then tell you I have a great Dane or a Bassett hound or a Chihuahua you might not be surprised, but you won’t envision one until I tell you, because they’re not prototypical dogs. Similarly, if I mention “my transition,” you’re going to envision hormones, surgery and a name and document change, because that’s the common transition image.  There are so many people doing it who are so vocal about it, that me saying, “I shave my legs more often now” is not going to budge the needle. Finally, there’s a message I want to send: that you can be trans and lead a relatively happy life without hormones or surgery, and without significantly changing your gender presentation, name, pronouns or legal documentation.  For me, the easiest way to say that is “I’m trans, and I decided long ago not to transition.”  Take that away, and it makes it that much harder for me to say what I want to say. The bottom line is that people have images, schemas in their heads for every category.  That’s the way the mind works, and saying, “everyone has their own definition” doesn’t make it so.  There are some things you can legislate about language, but you can’t legislate prototypes out of existence. Articles Categorization Verbal Hygiene Some of us don’t transition #sslj td, th {border: thin solid black; padding: 0.5em;}     Short Skirt Long Jacket   a mind like a diamond knows what’s best   shoes that cut eyes that burn like cigarettes   playing with her jewelry the right allocations   putting up her hair fast and thorough and sharp as a tack   fingernails that shine like justice touring the facilities   a voice that is dark like tinted glass picking up slack   stays up late gets up early  a car with a cupholder armrest a car that will get her there   Kitty Karen   MG white Chrysler LeBaron   Hey! Ho!    uninterrupted prosperity    uses a machete to cut through red tape    smooth liquidation    good dividends   More or less… Categorization Glamour Grooming Media Short Skirt/Long Jacket I’ve gone out in public presenting as a woman a few times this summer, which gave me the opportunity to examine my feelings around those types of experiences.  One observation is that what I’ve been calling “gender fog” has at least three distinct phases to it: the anticipation of a significant gender event, the event itself and the reaction to the event.  I’ve never experienced one phase without the others, but the feelings I feel in each phase are somewhat different.  The anticipation phase is the most uncomfortable for me.  I experience intense excitement, insomnia and difficulty concentrating on anything other than the upcoming event.  I find myself planning and rehearsing and rehashing all the details: what I’ll wear, where I’ll go, who I’ll see, and so forth.  On the day of the event, I may have shaky hands and low appetite. The excitement may taper off as the event begins, particularly if what I’m doing is not all that exciting in itself.  But the feelings of satisfaction and gratification may grow, even if my feet are hurting or strange men are making me uncomfortable. After the event, I tend to feel a certain satisfaction.  I feel particularly gratified if the event goes well, but usually I feel some gratification even if the event wasn’t particularly satisfying.  I often replay the event in my mind, focusing on the most gratifying details: who said what, who did what, what looked good on me in the mirror. In this gratification period I also find myself thinking about future events: what else would be fun to do?  If I see a pretty woman on the street, I may compare myself with her, and feel a desire to be out there on the street looking just as pretty as her.  If I bought new clothes, I usually try them on at home and think about when I could wear them in the future.   The gratification period is also when I think most about how “easy” the event was (often because I’ve filtered out the difficult parts in my memory) and how much fun (often because I’ve filtered out any unpleasant parts).  I find myself thinking about the possibility of spending longer periods as a woman, or doing it more often.  If it begins while I’m still presenting as a woman, that’s the time when I may do something unwise, like the time I went home to the South Bronx without changing first. I’ve toyed with the idea of separating the notion of “gender fog” into two feelings: anticipation and gratification.  At this point I’m leaning towards simply talking about them as two distinct phases in the gender fog process, but I might change my mind about this. Feelings Gender fog Anticipation and gratification Gender dysphoria, a feeling of discomfort with life in a particular gender, is the usual psychological justification given for transition: hormones, surgery, name changes, gender marker changes and gender presentation changes.  In the standard transgender narrative, this feeling is presented as evidence of a mismatch between the gender that a person is currently living in and their gender identity, meaning the gender they believe themselves to be. Trans dogma typically goes further, asserting that gender identity beliefs are indications of a person’s “true gender,” or the gender of their “authentic self.”  This is usually supported with scientific studies claiming to show innate “brain sex” differences.  Transition is presented as the only way to relieve gender dysphoria, and dysphoria as evidence that a transition will be successful and satisfactory. There are a number of problems with this line of reasoning.  The scientific studies are often cherry-picked from preliminary, inconclusive or overreaching research.  Many people feel dysphoria without having any gender identity belief, mismatched or not.  Many people with dysphoria are not satisfied with transition, and many people who are quite happy with transition show no dysphoria beforehand. One of the biggest difficulties with the idea that dysphoria means transition is that many people are dysphoric to both (or all) genders.  They’re not happy being men or women, and sometimes they’re unhappy with other genders, whether they’re non-Western ones like kathoey or recent creations like neutrois.  I personally feel at least as uncomfortable with my experiences a woman as I do with my experiences as a man. Some people react to this bigender dysphoria with more of the same essentialism: people who are dysphoric to both genders must have an authentic self with a dual gender identity, they say.  If the prescription for dysphoria to one gender is transition to the other, then the prescription for bigender dysphoria must be to transition away from both, to an agender presentation.  Others say that we should transition to an androgynous presentation incorporating both genders, or a fluid one where we live day to day in whichever gender bothers us the least. The difficulty with these transition-based approaches is that frequently people need to experience a life in a gender before they know for sure how it will make them feel.  That means that someone (like myself, for example) may know for years that we are dysphoric to masculinity before we discover that we are also dysphoric to femininity.  A significant number of people have gotten major body modifications before they figured it out. If we are uncomfortable with all genders, though, it raises the possibility that what we are uncomfortable with is not gender at all, but something else in life, like the pressure to conform, or some constant in our own lives, like a bad economy or an oppressive family.  There may be other ways to deal with these problems, or they may be things that we have to accept.  For some, there is even the possibility that they are trapped with no good options. The bottom line is that any approach that offers only one solution, transition, is going to fail anyone with bigender dysphoria, and that anyone who feels dysphoria to one gender should give careful and thorough consideration to the possibility that they are dysphoric toward other genders as well. Articles Feelings Bigender dysphoria I’ve talked in the past about my choice to deal with my transgender feelings by coming out of the closet but not transitioning.  There are several challenges to this approach, and tonight I want to talk about the challenge of sunk costs. Why did I buy this lip gloss?For those of us who choose transition, that transition quickly becomes the most important part of life.  It affects almost every facet of how they interact with other people, every minute of their waking lives.  It can affect their bodies in dramatic ways.  It requires a huge investment of time, money and effort in mental preparation, practice, counseling, medical expenses, clothes, accessories, cosmetics and legal and government fees. People who transition see those resources being put to constant use, and often can point to specific milestones towards a goal of being seen as “completely a woman” or “completely a man” (problematic goals, to be sure, but many people have them).  Whether it’s a transition announcement, a hormone letter, a gender marker change, a gender presentation change, these milestones can serve as confirmation that the resources haven’t been wasted. Sometimes we forget that those of us who don’t transition have significant costs as well.  Many of us spend a lot of time practicing speech and body language, and a lot of money on counseling, soft body mods, clothes, accessories and cosmetics.  But we only see that time, money and energy put to use when we do present as our target gender, and if we don’t transition that may not be very often. In some ways I envy transitioners those milestones and those feelings of accomplishment.  Since I decided not to live as a woman, being “completely a woman” or being seen as such is not a goal for me.  In fact, I have no real long-term goal for my transgender activities, other than keeping my transgender feelings within a tolerable range.  I have had short-term goals, like developing a passable voice or learning how to cover my beard shadow with makeup, but if I ever feel I have accomplished one of these goals, I find myself wondering what the point was.  Why spend all that time practicing a voice that I use once or twice a month?  Why spend all that time on makeup skills, and all that money on makeup and instruction, for something I don’t do that often? This is what I call the feeling of sunk costs, and one effect of this feeling is a desire to put those resources to use.  It makes us want to go out more often, to show off that makeup, that voice, to reassure ourselves that we weren’t spending the time and money for nothing. Actions Articles Grooming Sunk costs and the non-transitioner A friend of mine showed a friend of hers my previous post on gender fog, and it got me thinking that it’s time to write a blog post about dealing with gender fog.  As you can see from my previous post, it’s not like I’ve mastered the thing: it still can give me insomnia for days.  But I have developed some coping mechanisms that I find useful, and maybe they’ll help you too. To recap: Gender fog is a feeling that some transgender people get leading up to, during and sometimes shortly after, a significant gender event.  What makes an event significant is highly subjective and personal, and dependent on the situation.  Between the time when the event is planned and when it happens, I experience an intense excitement, often so intense that it interferes with my sleep.  During that time I find myself planning and visualizing and rehashing every minute detail of the event, no matter how mundane, and often have difficulty concentrating on anything else (like work, friends or family).  If I share my focus with friends or family, no matter how tolerant, they tend to complain that I show little interest in them or their needs.  I sometimes lose my perspective on my own life and make decisions that I later regret.  So what do I do to keep this from getting out of control?  I give myself breaks.  Gender fog is very stressful, and in my experience it impairs my judgment.  I need time when I’m not going through it, to relax and clear my head.  In my experience it gradually subsides over the following week.  After ten days it’s completely gone.  I want at least ten gender-fog-free days, so I try to have these significant gender events at least a month apart. I try not to do anything too special. I get so excited doing the same thing every month or so – going out for a walk and a little shopping, generally – that meeting up with a friend is a big deal.  As I said above, what makes something a big deal is going to be different for every person and every circumstance.  But compounding new things (“This is the first time I’ve gone out in three months, and I’ve got a new coat, and I’m meeting a friend, and we’re doing karaoke”) seems to make the gender fog worse. I set goals and limits ahead of time.  These may not be set in stone forever, but if I can say, “I’m going to go to the bar and have two drinks and then go home,” or “I’m going to spend no more than a hundred dollars on clothes,” it helps to keep things in perspective. I try not to deny myself.  Setting limits is good, but in my experience, one of the worst things for gender fog is the feeling that I’ve been restraining myself and keeping myself from doing whatever it might be.  When I finally get a chance to do that thing, it releases my inner toddler, who does the thing as long and hard as she can.  So I try to find a way to keep that kid happy. I try not to plan too far in advance.  The longer the time between the decision and the event, the longer the fog lasts.  A major mistake this past time was deciding on Saturday that I would be going out the following Thursday.  In the past, if I decided just a day in advance that meant only one sleepless night.  If I can swing it, a spontaneous same-day decision is ideal. I warn my loved ones.  When I tell my wife I’m planning to go out, she knows that there will be a while when I’ll be distracted, and a time when I will be self-centered.  She knows not to take anything too seriously at that point.  It’s only fair. I’m prepared to back out.  In the past I’ve changed my plans because I realized that things were getting too intense.  I went out by myself instead of with friends, or I wore something a bit less sexy and revealing, or lower heels.  Sometimes I just cancelled the thing altogether, or went in guy mode, and went out later when I could do it at shorter notice.  My friends have always been cool with it. I’m aware of the gender fog.  I’ve been through this before, and I know that my judgment is not at its best.  As Slartibartfast said, “Do not agree to buy anything at this point.”  I do, in fact, buy things, but I try to stay within my preset spending limit, and I generally succeed.  I try to never, ever, take major risks, or make any major irreversible life decisions while in the fog.  Sometimes I just tell myself, “Oh, I’ll decide that next week,” and then I usually wind up saying, “What was I thinking?”  So those are some of the things I do to deal with gender fog.  I’d be interested to hear what your experiences with gender fog are, and if you’ve come up with any strategies that I didn’t mention here! Actions Articles Feelings Gender fog How I deal with gender fog There have been a lot of arguments over whether it’s okay for some people to not find trans people attractive. I’ve got things to say about that, but first I wanted to get some facts cleared up.  It’s not just trans women complaining about this.  Recently a masculine-spectrum friend told me he was upset that a partner of his might not be attracted to him as a man.  He wasn’t just personally hurt; he found it transphobic.  So despite what you might hear from certain radical feminists, this is not just a plot by “males” to eliminate lesbians.  It’s a concern for all kinds of trans people. Trans people are not inherently unattractive.  Just look at the successes of “shemale porn” and Buck Angel if you want counterevidence.  There are women who are attracted to trans women, men who are attracted to trans men, and trans and nonbinary people who are attracted to all genders. Sexual preference is not the only thing that determines attraction.  A woman once told me that she was attracted to both men and women, but she didn’t find tall women with big shoulders attractive, or short guys with big hips.  Just because people aren’t attracted to you doesn’t mean they’re not attracted to trans people. Attractiveness is not the same as validation of our gender presentation.  Someone can find me intensely attractive because they think I’m a cute guy in a skirt and not because they think of me as a woman.  Whether people mind this depends in part on how committed they are to their gender identifications. Articles Sexuality Four observations about attraction to trans people I had a really tough bout of gender fog this past week, and I have two thoughts from it.  One quick thought is that it really makes a difference how far in advance I plan an event.  In this case I decided to go out to the Queens Pride House transgender support group presenting as a woman.  I decided almost a week in advance, which meant a week of insomnia and distraction. Photo: Pauline ParkThe second thought is more complex: it’s that gender fog leads to gender dysphoria.  Over the past week I spent a significant chunk of my waking hours, and a lot of the time I was supposed to be sleeping, thinking over and over again about what I was going to wear, what I wasn’t going to where, what the weather would be, when I was going to change, who I might run into, who might be at the support group, what they might say, what they might not say, trying on outfits, practicing my voice, and so on. I don’t want to suggest I was worried about any of those things.  I mean, you always want to think about safety, but it was care, not worry.  The rest of it was excitement, the way I feel the night before a trip to Europe. As I was having those thoughts, getting dressed and putting on my makeup, I had a lot of opportunities to think about the obstacles and challenges.  If I had a smaller belly I could wear this dress.  If I had narrower shoulders I could wear that dress.  If I had spent more time wearing pumps or sandals in the sun I wouldn’t have those tan lines.  If I didn’t have so much facial hair I wouldn’t have to wear all this makeup.  If I got my ears pierced I could wear a wider variety of earrings. I also felt a bit annoyed about all the time and energy I put into one night.  If I went out again I would have to do the makeup and clothes, but I wouldn’t have to shave.  I would be able to get more of my time and money’s worth for all the clothes and makeup and voice practice I’ve done. And every once in a while I got annoyed with my facial hair, with my big arms, my crotch bulge, my deep voice, my tan lines, my belly, my narrow hips.  I thought how much easier it would be if I had real breasts, and years of socialization as a woman. In other words, I had gender dysphoria – discomfort with the masculine gender role that I live in most of the time, and body dysphoria – discomfort with the male aspects of my body – caused by the gender fog.  Caused by my feelings and thoughts about this outing.  Caused by my decision to take this outing, by my own plans.  I increased my dysphoria through my own actions. Of course, I think about all the people I know who have transitioned.  They’ve told me that even though some obstacles (shaving, bulges, tan lines) go away, others remain, and new ones appear.  Family problems, job problems, discrimination, safety.  In the light of transition, things that had never bothered them before take on new significance. All things that I took into account nineteen years ago when I decided not to transition.  It was a good decision and I don’t see myself changing it. But if I did this more often, I’m not so sure I would hold to my decision.  If I never let the gender fog subside: if as soon as one event was over I had another one planned a week or so later, if as soon as I got used to one trans activity I pushed the envelope, if I spent every day and night thinking about trans stuff and how much more I could do, I think it would get too much. I could see my dysphoria increasing, and my desire to be a woman growing with it.  I could see myself getting my ears pierced, getting my hair removed, insisting on changing at home.  And then I could see myself going out more often, pushing the envelope harder.  The fog itself was pretty unpleasant; combine it with enough dysphoria and transition looks like a big improvement. And that’s why, when some of my friends from the support group asked, “Will we see Andrea again soon?” I had to tell them they probably wouldn’t.  They’ll definitely see me (they’re a great group of people, and their support is a huge help to me) but probably not in a dress.  That was way too much gender fog – and too much dysphoria.  I made my decision nineteen years ago, and I’m not going to put myself in a position to revisit it. Actions Articles Feelings Gender fog Personal news Gender fog feeds dysphoria I was glad I had the day off Friday, so I could go shopping as a girl before hanging out at the Seedy Eye.  I spent a lot of time on my makeup, and it paid off: only one “sir” and four “ma’am”s.  I found a nice full skirt that balanced out my shoulders, and decided to wear it to the bar to show off. As I was relaxing with Eddie and Kyle and Lisa over my first beer, the door swung open wide and a man barreled in, with several shopping bags.  He was tall and broad-shouldered, with collar-length salt-and-pepper hair and a long shaggy beard, wearing what looked like they might once have been elegant silk robes, but they were dusty and torn.  He waved at Gina and squeezed himself and his shopping bags into the bathroom. “New gal?” I asked. “Oh, that’s right, you don’t usually come on Fridays.  That’s Sissy,” said Lisa. “Let me guess, she’s going to come out in some frilly little-girl dress with petticoats?” “What?  Oh, yeah, that’s what I thought too when I heard that name.” “Like the other Sissy who comes on Thursdays,” said Kyle. “But no, she says she’s had that name for a very long time.  Isn’t she going by a different name now, Eddie?” “Yeah, um… Anna, I think.”  He stared at my legs.  “So, Traci, new skirt?” Eventually the door opened and she came out.  She had shaved and done a pretty good job with the makeup, but if you ask me the sundress she had on drew too much attention to her big muscular arms.  Eddie got up and bought her a beer, and they came back and sat with us.  Anna settled wearily on a barstool and smiled at me. “Hi, I’m Anastasia, Ana for short.  I’ve been coming here for a year, but I haven’t seen you.”  She had an elegant European accent of some kind, maybe Spanish or Slavic. “Hi Ana, I’m Traci.  I usually come on Saturdays, but I got the day off today, and I bought this new skirt!”  I stood up and gave it a twirl.  Eddie and Kyle and Lisa clapped politely. “Very nice, it balances your shoulders.  And your nail polish matches.” “I had some time before this place opened, and I liked the skirt so much I stopped in Walgreen’s and picked up this nail polish.”  I dug it out of my purse and waved it around.  “Plum pomegranate.” “Plum pomegranate!” Ana made a face.  “So are you transitioning?” “Me, nope.  I just do this on weekends.  Blow off steam.” “Your wife lets you walk around with plum pomegranate nail polish?” “Nah, I’m going to wipe it off before I go home.  She doesn’t mind a little residue.” “Very accommodating.” “She’s the best.”  I looked down at my hands.  “This time I got it on smoothly in two coats.  Only got a little on this pinky.” “Very good.”  She looked me up and down.  “So tell me something, Traci.  If you are only out for three hours, why put on nail polish at all?” “Good question.  Sometimes I don’t feel like putting on nail polish.  But it’s good practice.” “Good practice, yes.  But if you are not transitioning, why are you practicing how to put on nail polish?” “Hm.  Well, it will probably come in handy for SuperFemmeCon in August.” “Are you planning to spend the whole time en femme at SuperFemmeCon?” “I hope so, if I can get the lady to give the okay.  Why do you ask?” “Because everyone who goes to SuperFemmeCon tells me they go, spend the whole time en femme, and at the end of the weekend they feel tremendously let down and wish they could transition.  Why go, if you will feel horrible afterwards?” “Why go?  I take it you’ve never gone?” “No,” said Ana, sadly.  “I’ve never gone.  I cannot leave the greater New York area.” “Wow.  Old ball and chain really weighing heavily on you.” Her eyes widened.  “What did you say?” “You know, the metaphor.  Your wife, she’s like a ball and chain around your ankle.”  I pantomimed dragging around a ball and chain. “Ah, a metaphor.”  She stared bitterly at her wine. “Yeah.  Well, SuperFemmeCon is fun.  It’s a welcome change from the same old thing.  Who wants to get dressed up in the same old clothes every Saturday night, same makeup, drink the same beers and have the same conversations with the same people?” “Who, indeed?” “I mean, doing the same thing over and over again is really boring!  A gal needs a sense of progress.  Improve the makeup, improve the clothes, take a voice lesson, maybe save up for a little laser.” “And yet you said you were not transitioning.” “Nope.  Not for me.  Uh-uh.” “So why invest time and money into things that you will use maybe once a week?” “Well… Maybe if I had laser I would go out more than once a week.  Maybe I could swing a Friday every couple of weeks.” “Would your wife like that?  Would she want to spend that money on laser?” “Well, no.  Um…” Suddenly a voice crackled from Ana’s purse.  “Sisyphus, your time is up!”  All of a sudden, her beard started to grow.  We all just stared, and within thirty seconds it was the length it had been when she came in.  She sighed and stood up.  “Well, good night, guys.” “Wait, your name is really Sisyphus?” I cried.  “Someone named you after that guy…” She gathered her shopping bags, turned her back on me, and walked into the bathroom.  After a few minutes she emerged in her old robes, with her face pretty cleaned up considering, waved sadly and went out into the night. I looked at Eddie and Kyle and Lisa.  “Someone actually named her after the guy who rolled the big rock up the hill forever?” Lisa looked at me.  “Here’s the deal, Traci.  Last year, Olympus passed a package of transgender protections and benefits.” “Olympus.  You mean Mount Olympus where the Greek gods live, not the camera company.  I think they’re out of business anyway… Never mind.” “So one of the first to claim benefits was Sisyphus.  After all, he was cursed to roll the rock up the hill because he was clever and deceitful.  Everyone figured he was faking it.” “Fucking transtrender,” mumbled Kyle. “Maybe he was hoping the hormones would make him too weak to handle the rock.  But Hermaphroditus looked deep in his soul and found-“ “-that he had the soul of a woman?” I asked. “No, silly.  You know there’s no such thing as the soul of a woman.  Souls have no gender.  Hermaphroditus found that Sisyphus did not have strong enough dysphoria to qualify for hormones.” “Okay.” “But Hermaphroditus did find evidence of mild transgender desire.  So Sisyphus was given three hours off every Friday.” “Just enough time to come in here, shave and have a glass of wine,” said Kyle. “And then start all over again next week,” said Eddie. Lisa shook her head.  “Poor cursed soul.” “Yup.”  I looked down at my nail polish and my freshly shaved legs.  “Poor cursed soul.” Actions Articles Fiction Grooming A Sundress for Sisyphus In various transgender blog posts and articles you’ll come across the idea that it’s okay not to pass, that trans men who don’t pass are still men, and trans women who don’t pass are still women.  You’ll even find plenty of arguments that it’s wrong to try to pass, or to use the word “pass,” because it’s connected with racist ideas of “passing for white,” or because it implies that trans people are not the gender they claim to be, reinforcing the “deceiver” stereotype and undermining the essentialist “trans women are women” ideology. I get where a lot of this is coming from, and I’m sympathetic to it.  I agree that the old culture of passing was fraught with misogyny and conformism, and that the “deceiver” stereotype has been part of a system of violent exploitation of trans people.  I also agree that some people have a harder time passing than others, and that that doesn’t necessarily make them any less trans.  I don’t think it would be the worst thing in the world if trans women were seen by the general public as a special kind of women instead of as “men in dresses.”  And people who transition need to do whatever they can to make peace with their new lives. I have several problems with this line of thinking, however.  One major problem is that trans people, particularly those of us on the feminine spectrum, regularly face harassment and discrimination.  Passing, particularly superficial passing on the street, can prevent a lot of that.  Just last weekend I went out shopping.  I think at some point my makeup must have gotten smudged, because I started getting funny looks from people on the street.  Nobody said anything, but I imagine that I would have gotten more extreme looks, and maybe comments, if I’d gone out in a dress with no makeup at all on.  Passing makes a difference to our safety.  It’s fine for people to take calculated risks to show confidence in public, but it’s not fair to expect everyone to do that. Some of the trans men I’ve talked to say that the safety issue is different for them, although no less important.  They don’t get targeted so much for being seen as deceivers, but for being seen as women, and sometimes as lesbians.  If they think they pass, they may go to places where they would hesitate to go as women, but where they feel relatively safe as men.  Not passing exposes them as women, and thus as potential prey. Another issue is that for many of us, our presentation is a skill, something we’ve worked at for years, an art or a craft.  It takes time and effort to get it right, every time.  We deserve to be proud of our work and to be appreciated for it. Here’s one of my biggest problems with these anti-passing arguments: I didn’t start wearing women’s clothes because I wanted to be a trans woman.  I wanted to be a woman.  Not just any woman, but a pretty, sexy woman.  (Give me a break, I was twelve years old.)  I know full well that there are plenty of women who are admired and respected for being smart, thoughtful and caring, but those are things I can do as a guy.  What’s the point of being a woman if I can’t be pretty or sexy? I also know that it’s possible to be seen as a sexy, pretty trans woman.  I’m open to that, but it’s not what I want when I feel my trans desire.  The desire is to be a woman, and that means the kind of women I envied when I was a teenager: women who were not noticeably trans. And yes, I know that many other trans women have made peace with the idea of being seen as trans, or not being seen as pretty or sexy.  I say good for them, and I say that without sarcasm.  But many of them have transitioned, and it makes much more sense to give up on that kind of desire when you’ve decided to live as a woman full-time for the rest of your life.  Many of them are also older, and when I get older I will eventually make peace with not being sexy, but not yet. So yes, it’s great to challenge the deceiver stereotype, and the pressure to pass, and the toxic culture of “passing tips.”  But it’s also okay to want to be safe, to be pretty, to be sexy, and to be proud of our work. Actions Articles Grooming passing On passing We are not rational.  And by “we,” I mean people.  What made the characters of Spock and Data on Star Trek seem so alien was that they were so much more rational than the human (and Klingon and Betazoid) characters around them.  Sheldon Cooper on the Big Bang Theory idolizes Spock, but the best he can mange is to mark out islands of rationality in a sea of feelings, and even these often collapse under their mutual inconsistency, or even their own internal inconsistencies. Knowing this about people, it is not surprising that transgender people are irrational.  What is surprising sometimes is how often we are expected to be rational, and specifically of course how our transgender actions – to present as a different gender than what everyone else is expecting, to modify our bodies – are expected to be rational.  Why should we be rational when doctors and lawyers and priests are not rational?  When the President of the United States is not rational?  Why are so many people – not just our families and friends and doctors, but above all ourselves and other trans people – holding us to a higher standard than everyone else? There is a rational explanation for this behavior, this irrational insistence on rationality.  It comes from gatekeeping.  Many of the things we do, like body modification and public displays of gender non-conformity, have the potential to seriously mess up our lives if we don’t take proper precautions.  Many of the things we do also pose serious threats to the established power structure.  Authority figures have historically allowed these actions only on the condition that we supply a rational explanation for them. In one important sense the gatekeepers are right.  We should take a rational approach to figuring out our lives, to dealing with our transgender feelings.  We should consider the options and plan carefully before getting major surgery or putting life-altering substances in our bodies.  And that means not making those decisions when we’re in the middle of a gender fog. The problem is not with being rational, it’s with applying a double standard for rationality.  We trans people aren’t the only irrational ones, and we’re not the only ones who get body-modifying surgeries and injections and pills, and who change our names and identities.  Everyone should put a lot of thought and care into these decisions.  But since there’s no way to legislate thought and care, everyone should be free to make their own choices. Maybe if we are truly free to be irrational about our major life decisions, we will finally feel able stop pretending that we’re always rational. Actions Articles Beliefs We are not rational Gender fog is a state of mind experienced by many people in response to a significant gender event.  It is characterized by intense excitement and a focus on the gender event. Last September I couldn’t hold the phone straight long enough to take this selfie.The event that brings about the gender fog can be anything; its significance is entirely personal and specific to the moment.  It can be something that happened in the recent past, like being referred to with a particular pronoun, or something in the present, like wearing a particular outfit, or even something in the future. like a planned party.  It can even be just thinking about something that happened in the past, or planning something for the future.  What produces gender fog one day in one person may be totally uninteresting to another person, or even to the same person a month later. Some indications of gender fog include shallow breathing, sweating, butterflies in the stomach, and a lack of interest in anyone or anything outside of the context of the event.  In extreme cases, people (okay, I) have reported insomnia, buzzing in the ears and nervous tremors. The most common feature is that the person will simply not shut up about that event and how wonderful they feel. Here are some things that gender fog is not:  Gender fog is not a sign of your gender identity, authentic self, inner woman, masculine side or any other part of your essence. Gender fog is not specific to people who transition.  From what I can tell, it is found throughout the “transgender umbrella,” among transsexuals, transvestites, drag queens, butch lesbians and others. Gender fog is not happiness.  I hope some day you’ll experience enough happiness to be able to tell the difference. Gender fog is not relief from dysphoria.  It is not sustainable.  It will fade soon enough, unless another significant gender event happens.  And if the same event happens too often, its significance will fade and you’ll have to do something more significant, and so on. Gender fog is not safe.  The intensity with which we focus on the event and our gender issues when we’re in the fog make it hard for us to maintain perspective and to keep our safety. Gender fog is not pleasant for those around you.  Just ask them.  Be careful out there, folks… See also: How I deal with gender fog. Articles Feelings Gender fog What gender fog is and is not I had some doubts that a drag queen could do justice to the story of Casa Susanna, but I should have known better than to doubt Harvey Fierstein.  He is, really, one of us and a gifted, sensitive storyteller, as I should have known after watching Torch Song Trilogy.  The actors assembled for Casa Valentina may not be transvestites, but they are seasoned professionals, and they captured the reality of our lives (including the gender fog).  I recognized a bit of myself in every one of the transvestites, and was reminded of many others I’ve met at various gatherings.  It’s up for three Tony Awards: Best Play, Featured Actor (Reed Birney) and Featured Actress (Mare Winningham, who as Rita expertly draws out the ironies and contradictions in the feelings of the transvestites around her). As I told Reed Birney, it is hugely important that he and the rest of the cast are doing such a great job telling our history.  Thanks to my friend Alice for giving me a chance to meet him!Anyone who has any interest in transgender issues should see this play.  Fierstein tells about a critical point in our history that reverberates today, culminating in a great line from the character of Charlotte (Reed Birney), a stand-in for Virginia Prince: “Fifty years from now, when homosexuals are still scuttling about as the back-alley vermin of society, cross-dressing will be as everyday as cigarette smoking.” The irony, of course, is that it is us transvestites who are still scuttling about, while homosexuals are more everyday than cigarette smoking.  We took pains to distance ourselves from gay men, and in particular drag queens, and look what that got us.  We distanced ourselves from “sex-changers” and eventually “transgenderists,” as Prince came to call herself, as well.  Now we’re still in the closet, while they gain more acceptance every year. The one thing I really want to add is that we do still exist.  From reading the reviews of the play and commentary inspired by it, you might think that a black hole swallowed us all up in 1963, with our bouffant wigs.  The one exception is Playbill, which quotes Fierstein: “What grabbed me was: Why did they get cut out of our world? Why aren’t they part of our struggle? We get rights. They don’t.” I had read some of the reviews before I went.  I told the bus driver I was going to see Casa Valentina, and he mentioned he had heard good things about A Raisin in the Sun.  Later in the conversation I told him, “Imagine if people were talking about A Raisin in the Sun as though black people only existed back in 1961?” No, we do still exist, and the vast majority of us are still deep in the closet.  And here’s where you come in.  You can help us to come out.  You can make a safe space for us. Chances are that someone you know is a closeted transvestite.  When I came out of the closet, it was a huge relief to hear people say things like this:  It’s okay if you wear women’s clothes. It’s okay whether you like men or you don’t. It’s okay whether you believe you’re really a woman or you don’t. I won’t laugh at you. I won’t fire you. I won’t kick you out. I won’t leave you. I’ll still love you.  It would have been even better if they had said those things before I came out.  Maybe you can say them, for your friends and family and employees and tenants and neighbors to hear.  Maybe if enough people say them, we won’t feel so afraid any more. Allies Articles Categorization General News Media Personal news The closet We still exist! Tomorrow I have a chance to wear a great dress I picked up at a thrift store last year, but I’m not going to do it.  The problem is that my students need me to have a clear head tomorrow, and just thinking about wearing the dress makes it hard for me to think clearly about anything else. The dress is really pretty: a black cotton-silk wrap with a full mid-calf skirt and flower prints along the hem.  When I bought it I didn’t expect to have many occasions to wear it, but the price couldn’t be beat.  Then my friend Alice invited me to go see “Casa Valentina,” and I can’t think of a more appropriate place to wear it. Unfortunately, my final exam is scheduled for tomorrow afternoon.  Even though this was the first class I’ve come out to and they’ve been cool about it, I don’t think it’s the time for me to wear something so dramatic. They need to concentrate. I wasn’t seriously thinking of wearing the dress to class; my actual plan was to go to my office downtown and change there, but that would mean carrying a lot of bulky clothes and shoes around with me in addition to the exam papers and my tablet.  So I had thought of bringing the clothes to my office today. The thing is that I need to concentrate too.  Supervising an exam is not that demanding, but I do need to pick up the exams, be on the lookout for any foul play, and answer student questions.  I also need to be able to think clearly afterwards, so that I grade the exams fairly and speedily.  And for all that I need to not be gender-fogged and I need to be reasonably well rested. As I started to think about packing a bag, I felt the rush of gender fog hit me.  I was excited and a bit jittery, and I had a hard time thinking about anything else I had planned for the day.  I decided that if I did wear a dress to the play, I wouldn’t plan it out over two days.  And still, my thoughts kept coming back to the play, and every time I felt the same rush.  I’m feeling it now as I write this. This is just not a good week to have gender fog.  Hopefully I’ll have a chance for a less exciting outing soon.  Maybe I’ll even get a chance to wear that dress some time, and maybe I’ll be able to manage it so that the gender fog isn’t overwhelming.  But this week I need to get work done, so I’ve decided not to wear it tomorrow.  And that’s okay. Articles Feelings Gender fog Personal news The times when you don’t want gender fog I’ve written here before that I believe most transgender people share the same basic feelings: gender dysphoria, transgender desire and gender fog.  Whether you are transsexual, transvestite, drag queen, drag king, butch lesbian, genderqueer, non-binary or something else, you almost certainly experience one of those feelings, and probably all three.  Whatever neurological claims you may have read about essential differences between one group and another, the fact remains that almost none of the trans people you will meet have been found to have a “female brain,” neurologically.  People cross those subcategory boundaries all the time, and the only evidence currently accepted for membership is personal declaration. We are the same, and yet we can be divided into two subgroups that are very different, with an essential conflict of interest between us that is impossible to erase.  This difference is not based on biology or neurology, it is based on a simple difference of goals.  Trans people who transition – who take a goal of becoming or being seen as a different gender – are often at odds with trans people whose goals do not include transitioning. There are multiple conflicts between transitioners and non-transitioners, but the most common, the most salient, conflict is over destiny.  Transitioners tend to believe that it is their destiny to transition, and to interpret facts as evidence for that destiny.  Non-transitioners may believe that it is our destiny not to transition, or we may be agnostic on that issue. For example, one time I was out with a friend, presenting as a woman.  My friend remarked to me, “You’re not very feminine, are you?”  At first I was hurt, but then I saw he had a point, and I thought to myself, “Actually, I’m getting tired of being a woman, and I’ll be glad when I can take this bra off and use my regular voice.  Good thing I didn’t transition!”  In contrast, Lal Zimman interviewed trans men who reported feeling devastated by the idea that they were failing as men.  They couldn’t say, “good thing I didn’t transition,” because they did.  Instead, they said things like, “I must just be a feminine man.” And you know what? I completely understand the value of the destiny argument.  Transition is hard.  I’ve known transitioners for whom it was pretty obvious to everyone that they were on the right path, but still they encountered some very daunting challenges.  There are many people who are politically and philosophically opposed to transition, and who will fight you on it, possibly including parents, employers and medical professionals.  It’s hard to go through that constantly wondering if you’re doing the right thing. The psychologist Dan Gilbert talks about an experiment where people who felt that they were stuck with a possession (an artistic print) decided that they liked it better than people who thought they could exchange it.  When we’re stuck with something – and it’s something we can live with – we make peace with it.  When we can change it at any time, the grass is always greener.  Marriage works in similar ways.  If you’re committed to a person it helps to believe that you’re destined for them, and if you’re committed to transitioning it’s helpful to believe that you’re destined to transition. The conflict comes in when people start making universal destiny arguments, like the idea that “trans women are women,” not just when presenting as women, but essentially, eternally, from birth through death, whether we transition or not.  Transition then is portrayed as not a change of gender, but as revealing the “real you,” or your “authentic self.”  That implies that someone like me who chooses not to transition is hiding the real me, or denying my authentic self.  And that is true for people who stay in the closet, but it’s not true for the rest of us. If we are not denying our authentic selves, but we are still not transitioning, many conclude, we must not have that essence of womanhood (or manhood) that makes transition such a necessity.  And that leads to bizarre twists of logic, where someone can be a “man who likes to wear dresses” one day, and be seen as essentially and forever male, and the next day declare a transition and be seen as essentially and forever female. This essentialist view of non-transitioners leads people to declare that we are not truly trans, and therefore not part of LGBT.  It leads them to deny the very real feelings of gender dysphoria, transgender desire and gender fog that we continue to feel, and to deny us any need for support or services.  It leads them to speak on behalf of all transgender people, setting priorities and making declarations about terminology without any regard to our very real needs. Transgender essentialism also leads people to marginalize and ignore non-transitioners.  Because the choice not to transition results in people tending to become less passable over time, non-transitioners are caricatured as embarrassing, and negative characteristics that are found across the transgender spectrum are pushed into caricatures of cross-dressers and drag queens as big clumsy insensitive objectifying men in short skirts, and of transmasculine genderqueer people as childish “transtrenders” who claim gender variance only to attract attention. Detransitioners are usually kicked right out of the transgender club.  The fact that they weren’t happy with their transition leads many people (including many detransitioners themselves) to declare that they were “never really trans” in the first place.  But of course the feelings of dysphoria and desire and fog don’t vanish, and the detransitioners are left to cope with them with very little support. In short, the essentialist way of thinking about trans issues is a big problem for non-transitioners and detransitioners.  I used to think that it was just confined to a particular subgroup, and I had friends, many of them non-transitioning trans people, who were skeptical of it.  But then a funny thing happened.  Many of these friends transitioned, and as each one began to commit to building new lives in a new gender they and their families started repeating essentialist claims.  Each time I heard one of these claims I objected, but the result was that over time they began to think of me as a combative stickler.  This pattern is repeated in most of my interactions with transitioners. I used to take some of this personally, but now I realize that the transitioners are just protecting their interests.  They don’t seem to be capable of realizing how much their actions threaten my interests (this kind of egotism is a hallmark of gender fog), and thus they tend to dismiss my complaints as cranky contrarianism. It is not cranky contrarianism.  It is the one essential difference between trans people who transition and those who don’t: transitioners have an interest in justifying transition, and non-transitioners often have an interest in justifying not transitioning.  It is not biology, it is simple psychology. Can we still be friends?  Yes, despite this difference, we have many of the same feelings, and many of the same needs.  We face many of the same dangers, and we inhabit many of the same spaces.  I have friends who have transitioned or are transitioning, and I respect their choices about what path to follow.  (That is all I can do; I cannot accept that they have no choice.  I think this is clear.) There is room for us to form alliances of common interest, and alliances of the hearth.  But there will always come a Yalta, a time when that essential conflict of interests will manifest itself, when the alliances will break down.  Some people – Righteous Ones – will be able to put things in perspective and sacrifice their own interests for someone with a greater need. It will not always be obvious whose need is greater, and we may take actions that are at odds with each other’s interests.  But what is absolutely critical is to acknowledge and respect them.  If a transitioner tells me that something I do or say affects her interests, I may keep doing it, but I will try to accept that the conflict exists and respect her interests.  I ask the same from transitioners.  If we all do that, there’s a chance we may be able to stay friends and keep the door open to future alliances. Actions Allies Articles Beliefs Categorization Verbal Hygiene The essential conflict between transitioners and non-transitioners I was a bit too glib writing about the “myth of the Righteous Person.”  Let me walk that back and say that there is such a thing as a Righteous Person: someone who stands up for trans people not because they want to get invited to the Queer Students’ Party, and not because they worry they might be mistaken for a “tranny” some day, but because they believe we are people who deserve respect and fair treatment.  Those are the best kinds of allies, the ones who do it out of a heartfelt commitment. I call them Righteous People based on three concepts from Jewish philosophy: the Righteous Ones, the Righteous Gentiles and the Righteous Among the Nations.  The Righteous Among the Nations is an honor bestowed on non-Jews who risked “life, liberty or position” to protect Jews during the Nazi holocaust.  It specifically excludes anyone who acted for personal gain. The Righteous Among Nations is said to be based on an earlier notion of the Righteous Gentile, one who is not Jewish but lives among Jews and follows the laws of the community, as shown in the common Hebrew word chasid, which is translated as “righteous,” but also sometimes as “pious.”  This is the same word that is used for Hasidic Jews, people who define themselves by a greater adherence to Jewish law than assimilated European and American Jews. There is another word, tzadik, that is translated as “righteous.”  In the words of Maimonides, “One whose merit surpasses his iniquity is a tzadik.”  This word comes down to us in the names of Neil Sedaka and Janette Sadik-Khan, who are both apparently descended from Righteous Ones. I mention these distinctions because I think the concepts are also reflected in our concept of “ally.”  There is the brother in arms, who is like the Allied Powers, fighting a common enemy.  There is the ally of the hearth, who comes to meetings and parties, and makes an effort to get all the pronouns and terminology right.  They are like the Pious Gentile, the one who is not one of us but lives among us and follows our laws.  Then there are the ones like the employees of the Maryland McDonald’s who tried to defend Chrissy Lee Polis from her attackers, with no motivation but human decency.  Those are the Righteous Ones. The key is that a Pious One is not necessarily a Righteous One.  Just as importantly, a Righteous One is not necessarily a Pious One.  This is why we need to be careful which kind of ally we are talking about when we use the word. Allies Articles Categorization Verbal Hygiene The Righteous Ones I’ve written before about how important it is to separate transgender feelings and beliefs from the actions we take in response to those feelings and beliefs.  Some of these actions are spontaneous and impulsive, but many are deliberate and goal-oriented.  Everyone’s trans journey is individual, but I think there are four main paths that people take. The best-known path is that of out transition, followed by celebrities like Laverne Cox and Chaz Bono.  This path leads to the goal of a different social gender classification, and also social classification as transgender.  It involves actions to transition, like body modifications and legal gender changes, and also actions to be or remain out, like declarations of intent to transition or disclosure of past transition. The second path is the closet, which may not seem like an active path.  It leads to maintaining the gender that was assigned at birth, as well as a social classification as “normal” – not trans, and usually not gay.  But people who choose the closet actually have to do a lot to maintain their “normal” status: joining secret clubs, constructing elaborate stories to explain their shaved bodies or trips to Provincetown, building literal hiding places for their clothing. A third path is stealth transition, which aims for a new social gender classification but to keep the status of “normal” and not transgender, and involves the actions of transition plus those of the closet. The fourth path is the one I have chosen.  I reject repression, and I have found that I do not need the closet, but I have also decided that transition is not for me.  My goal is to be socially classified as transgender, or maybe a transvestite, but not to permanently change the way that others see my gender.  The only actions that I need for this goal are the “eternal coming out” – because even though I put up a web site in 1996, not everyone has read it, so I need to keep letting people know.  And this path has worked very well for me.  The vast majority of the stress that I felt as a teenager in the closet went away as I accepted myself and came out. I know that I’m fortunate to be able to follow this path, through the acceptance of my family, friends, co-workers and customers.  Some people choose the closet, and others truly have no choice. You don’t hear a lot about those of us on the fourth path.  It’s a bit harder and lonelier than I thought it would be when I chose it back in 1996.  But it’s here.  It’s not repression, and it’s not transition.  It’s another way of dealing with the trans feelings, and it might work for you.  Please respect it. Actions Articles Categorization The closet Four transgender paths I’ve written before about how I would like to find common cause with other people who are critical of essentialist transgender ideology, but I get alienated by the nasty rhetoric that many of them throw around.  A case in point is this article by Taylor Fogarty.  I follow some people on Twitter who post good stuff, but they also tweeted approvingly about Fogarty’s article, which is  Fogarty begins with a reasonable attack on the concept of gender identity, which I have also roundly criticized on this blog as a faith-based argument masking a prescriptive set of identity-based behavioral expectations.  She also critiques the “cotton ceiling” claims of some trans activists, which are not entirely without basis, but still very problematic, and deserving of a more nuanced critique. The rest of Fogarty’s argument is based on a flawed understanding of how the law protects people from discrimination.  It goes something like this: The law mandates punishment for people who hurt others based on their sexuality.  In order to establish hurt, we need to define protected sexualities, and in order to do that we need to define sexes, all based on “objective fact.” I am not a lawyer, but I know this isn’t the way the law works, and with good reason.  My father was actually gay-bashed in the 1970s.  He was a skinny guy with long hair, and he was waiting to cross Sixth Avenue at Waverly Place when he heard someone yell “Faggot!” and something hit him on the back of the head.  He was knocked unconscious, but got stitched up at the hospital.  The police weren’t interested, because at the time there were no hate crimes laws, and they didn’t have enough to go on for assault. My dad was not gay.  Not that there’s anything wrong with that, he just wasn’t.  Neither was Ever Orozco, who was stabbed to death in Jackson Heights in 2013.  But Orozco’s killer accused Orozco of blowing kisses at him, so he was prosecuted for a hate crime. This is the way it should be, because the problem is not that these classes of people exist out there in some objective reality, and haters are picking one to beat up.  The problem is that these categories exist in haters’ minds as threats, and therefore targets.  They could construct a nonsensical category including Tibetans, Lutherans, plushies and maybe some Rotarians, and it would be just as destructive as any that Fogarty claims to be based on objective fact. Fogarty’s logic is not the logic of the law.  It’s the logic of fear, where the response to trauma is to divide the world up into the righteous, beleaguered Us and the nasty, savage Them, with strong laws and definitions protecting Us from Them.  The idea that a straight man could be the innocent target of anti-gay violence has probably never occurred to her.  She might find a way to say that they don’t deserve protections anyway, but maybe she’s better than that. Articles Categorization Media Violence Definitions and protections In February I talked about the odd concerns you hear every once in a while over “low birth rates.”  I noted that they’re always about the birth rate of one country, ethnic group, religious group or even race, relative to another.  It’s an ancient tribal feeling, and this article by Israeli tribalist Moshe Arav about the Jewish State’s “demographic targets” is unusually blunt, even for the genre. If you think about it evolutionarily, there’s a certain sense to this tribalism.  If most people look after the tribe, and even show a lack of concern for people from other tribes, then the chances that any member of the tribe will survive are greater than if everyone just looked after themselves of their nuclear families or treated everyone in the world equally.  On that basis, a concern with the tribe’s birth rate is understandable. But tribal impulses like these don’t work well when they’re applied to a nation or an empire.  Caesar Augustus worried a lot about low Roman birth rates, but it was much more effective to allow Italians and other non-Romans to take on a Roman identity than to promote rigid morality and existing bloodlines. Birth rate obsession may not be effective for nations and empires, but that’s not to say that it isn’t dangerous.  In fact, it’s one of the main historical reasons why transgender actions and homosexual desire have been condemned and even criminalized, and why women and others have been oppressed.  As Philip Longman detailed in 2006, it’s the prime motivation for patriarchy. Around the world and throughout history, some cultures have tolerated or even valued homosexual and transgender actions, while others have condemned them.  Many of the explanations people give for condemnation are based on tradition, which doesn’t tell us much, but when they do go beyond tradition it usually comes down to reproduction. If you’re simplistically focused on the birth rate of your tribe or nation, anything that distracts from making babies is a problem.  That includes celibacy, birth control, masturbation and women’s education, among other things.  Gay sex is a problem for this worldview, but boy howdy is same-sex love a bigger problem for it.  If two guys fall in love, what incentive are they going to have to conceive children? Trans people are just as much of a problem for people who worry about birth rates.  Anyone who eliminates their reproductive capability through hormones or surgery is eliminating their ability to contribute to the birth rate.  Trans women who don’t modify their bodies can’t conceive by having sex with men or with other trans women, so for birth rate purposes they might as well be gay men.  Trans men who are still fertile but don’t have sex with men might as well be lesbians. Beyond our own fertility, we threaten the birth rate by attracting others.  A MTF trans person can’t be impregnated, so she’s wasting the time and energy of any man she attracts, and similarly with FTMs and women.  Worse, we are often seen as deceivers who turn honest straight people away from the right gender, where they can be seduced by anybody.  A significant part of the Rocky Horror Picture Show is devoted to mocking this fear of “decadence.” Of course, many trans people can and do have kids, without repressing themselves: I’m in a happy marriage with one offspring.  And it has been argued that LGBT people and a general tolerance for diversity increase the life expectancy of the children who are born, and their overall quality of life and character, by providing additional adults to nurture and provide for these children.  But this kind of subtle reasoning is lost on the tribalists.  All that matters to them is quantity, not quality, and a simple job: making babies. People like to condemn “homophobia” and “transphobia,” online and in person.  They’re right to condemn it.  It kills people, and ruins other people’s lives.  But it’s not enough just to condemn it.  We need to understand where it comes from, how it functions, and what feeds it.  A lot of what feeds it is this kind of tribalism: they see us as traitors to the tribe.  Remember that the next time you hear someone moaning about low birth rates. Articles Categorization Patriarchy Tribal traitors Image: Ally problems / Memegenerator My mom says, “Ally means to me…..i got your back……count on me.”  That’s what an ally is in one-on-one terms, but what does it mean for one group to be an ally of another?  Or for an individual to be an ally of an entire group?  It is relatively easy to be an ally when you have no stake in the game other than friendship or general human decency.  It is much harder when the alliance has an actual or potential conflict with your own priorities. Pauline Park has a good summary of the short-lived alliance among LGBT advocates for an Employment Non-Discrimination Act.  The alliance was abandoned by some of its most powerful members, notably the Human Rights Campaign and Representative Barney Frank, who identified as gay men and saw their primary mission as the protection of gay men.  They were willing to concede defeat on issues of gender identity and expression in the hope that protections for sexual orientation could pass on their own.  In the end, nothing did. It’s not like this doesn’t happen between groups under the trans umbrella either.  How often is “gender identity” the focus, with no mention of gender expression?  How often do transitioning trans people feel betrayed by famous drag queens like RuPaul? In practice, these alliances function just like the Allies in World War Two: when there is a common interest they work together, but when there is a conflict of interest they work against each other.  Somehow, people have an expectation that the alliance will not be so mercenary, but it usually doesn’t turn out that way, in war or in politics. Why do we expect these alliances to hold in the face of conflicts of interest?  Why would we expect gay men to put the interests of trans people ahead of their own?  In part, I think it’s the myth of the Righteous Person.  The people who help us can’t just be individuals who have a heart, they have to be so perfect that they can put our needs in front of theirs whenever there’s a conflict. Beyond that, I think there’s a sense of alliances of the hearth.  Many of these gay men and lesbians and transitioning trans people live in the same neighborhoods as us.  They go to the same bars and clubs and community centers.  Sometimes they literally are us: the magic of intersectionality and fluid identities means that someone can be gay and trans, or identify first as gay, then as trans. We don’t expect the people we eat or drink with to go against us.  How can they be helping us with our makeup one day, then lobbying against job protections for us the next?  And yet somehow it happens.  The alliances break down.  In those of us who are simultaneously members of conflicting categories, the conflict of interest may have played out inside them before we saw it in the community. Does this mean that these community relationships are all a sham, and all for nothing?  No.  Groups of people do great things for each other when there is no direct conflict of interest.  Individuals even do great things for each other against their own personal interest.  But the record seems to show that it is unrealistic to expect entire groups of people to voluntarily act against their group’s interest.  There are limits to alliances.  We need to be prepared for them, and act accordingly. Allies Articles Categorization The limits of alliances Years ago, I promised my wife I wouldn’t go out in our neighborhood, presenting as a woman. It was 2001 and we lived in the South Bronx.  Everyone agreed it was a dangerous neighborhood, particularly for women and people who were seen as “faggots” or “travestis.”  We had a neighbor who was a trans woman, and we never saw anybody attack her, but we didn’t want to take any chances.  We talked about it, and we agreed. Not going out in the neighborhood meant that I couldn’t go out at all.  I stopped by the “LGBT Community Center” one day.  I figured that a safe place to change was a basic service to the “T” community.  The receptionist told me, “No, we don’t let people change in the bathroom, because they make a mess with all the makeup and stuff.”  (They have since changed their policy, and you are allowed to change in the bathroom.) And then one late summer day I was at home.  I’d been laid off.  I put on a skirt and heels and admired myself in the mirror, and then I started to take them off.  No, I said.  Fuck this. I stripped down to my underwear and put on a layer of foundation makeup.  Then I put on some androgynous pants and a T-shirt and packed a bag.  In Riverside Park I put on lipstick and earrings.  In a Barnes and Noble women’s room I changed into my skirt and heels.  Then I got on the subway and walked around Midtown. It felt so good to be walking around as a woman.  I felt pretty and free and excited.  I didn’t want it to end.  And then it came to me: why should it end?  Everyone here sees me as a woman.  My neighbors will see me as a woman.  None of them will recognize me!  Nobody in the South Bronx will attack me, because they’ll see me as a woman! And that’s how I broke my promise to my wife.  How I went against my own better judgment.  I got on the subway in my skirt and heels and lipstick, with my guy clothes in a shoulder bag.  Half an hour later I walked up the stairs and click-clicked my heels down the Grand Concourse to my building. Then I remembered the older guys that hang out in front of my building.  They’re an interesting combination of doorman, neighborhood watch and senior citizens’ club.  They weren’t there when I left in the late morning, but of course they were there in the late afternoon.  They held the door for me, and I scooted inside. Clicking around the corner I came face-to-face with my next-door neighbor.  “Hi, Myrna!” I blurted out in my perky women’s voice, before disappearing inside my apartment.  Why, no, I’m not your neighbor, I’m a complete stranger who just happens to know your first name! As it turns out, there was no fallout from that incident.  I ran into Myrna a couple of weeks later, and she said, “I saw your … sister?”  I said, “Oh, you mean my cousin!”  Her son helpfully translated, “Ah, la prima!” which suggested that I had been the topic of their dinner-table conversation.  The guys at the front door asked my wife, “So you live with your … brother?”  She said, “No, my husband.” And that was the end of it.  Nobody attacked me, nobody harassed me.  Everyone was just as friendly as before.  That’s not the point, of course. The point is that it could have been worse.  My wife and I sat down and made a sober assessment of the state of our neighborhood and the risks of going out in public there.  I was frustrated with that, which is reasonable.  In a thoughtful, sober state of mind, I would have gone to CDI until I had a chance to move to a less notorious neighborhood, and in fact that’s what I later did. The point is that I took this sober assessment and threw it out the window.  And that’s an example of gender fog. Articles Gender fog The closet I broke a promise Recently I wrote that most of us under the “transgender umbrella” – transvestites, transsexuals, genderqueer, non-binary, drag queens, butch lesbians and all the others – all feel either gender dysphoria or transgender desire, or both.  Our interpretations of these feelings may be different.  But more importantly, there are a wide variety of possible actions in response to those feelings, and none of those actions are more automatic or necessary than any other. A lot of us feel a desire to be a particular gender.  Whether we see the goal as changing our gender or others’ perceptions of it, the feeling is similar.  We also feel a desire to escape a gender, whether or not we see it as our true gender.  Not all of us feel both feelings, we don’t all feel them to the same degree, and the feelings are not constant for any of us.  Most of us, to one degree or another, feel conflicting desires to remain in or return to another gender, or discomfort with our target gender. There is also a difference in beliefs, and how these beliefs inform our interpretations of our trans feelings.  Some trans people believe that they are and have always been, innately and invisibly, the “other” gender.  Others believe that they are simply “expressing their feminine side,” or “performing female masculinity.”  Some believe they are and have always been genderfluid or bigender.  Some believe that “true trans people” exist, but that they are not among them, despite their feelings.  Some are skeptical of all these claims about invisible essences. The biggest differences lie in what we do about those feelings.  Some transgender actions are public: being visibly trans or talking about being trans in public spaces or in the media.  Some involve interacting with the public, but more quietly: social or legal transition, public crossdressing, ambiguous gender presentation. Some trans actions are more personal, although they can affect our presentation in public: hormones, surgery and soft body mods.  Some can be private, like private crossdressing, underdressing, secret  fantasies or even doing nothing. Some of these actions are irreversible and involve a permanent commitment.  Some are reversible with difficulty.  Some are reversible with time, and some are easily reversible.  In many ways, doing nothing has consequences over time. I’ve seen a lot of people on Tumblr and Reddit asking, “Am I trans?”  Someone half-jokingly responded that if you ask the question, you’re trans.  And I responded that the real question is what you do about it.  As Jamison Green said, “there is NOT one way to be trans.”  There is no one set of actions that all FTM trans people take, and no one set for all MTF people. Transgender actions, after all, are a means to an end.  That end is making us more comfortable with our transgender feelings, relieving our discomfort with the gender that we live in and our longing to be another gender.  Of course one way of doing that is to live, as much as we can, as the gender we long to be.  But it is not the only way. Which is the right path, the right set of transgender actions?  Nobody really knows for sure.  The decision is easiest if you know you’re either in the “transition or die” group or the “transition and die” group – where you would commit suicide if you transitioned, or if you didn’t.  Those in the “transition or be miserable” or the “transition and be miserable” group can be fairly sure of themselves – to the extent they know whether they’re in one of those groups!  Those of us in the “transition optional” group will just have to muddle along, trying one thing or another, seeing what seems to work for other people and what doesn’t seem to work.  But it’s important to keep in mind that our choices, our transgender actions, don’t necessarily say anything about what we Really Are Inside, or what our True Destiny Is. Articles Beliefs Categorization Feelings Feelings, beliefs and actions III What is an ally?  No, really.  The way people have been using the term in identity politics is a significant extension over previous uses.  It’s important to understand this, and its implications. Allies have been a tricky topic in trans politics lately: how should they be treated?  Do allies have rights or responsibilities? How does someone earn ally status?  Are lesbian, gay and bisexual people automatically allies?  What about bondage, domination and sadomasochism fetishists?  Are different kinds of trans people (transvestites, transsexuals, genderqueer) automatically allies with each other?  Can ally status be revoked?  What does it mean to be an ally, anyway? When I hear the word “ally” outside of identity politics, I think of the Allies of the Second World War.  The thing about them is that they were allied for a very specific reason: to win the war against the Axis.  Maybe there were noises about Freedom and Civilization, but 75 years later it seems pretty clear that those were just propaganda.  Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union were allies for the partition of Poland, but once that was over the Nazis didn’t need the Soviets, and the alliance was over.  The Soviets joined the Allied Powers, and after the Nazis were defeated we went right into the Cold War.  The countries were allied while they shared a goal, and when they didn’t share that goal any more, they were no longer allies. An example of an alliance like this is gay men and MTF trans people uniting for greater police protection, because bashers don’t respect our categories and will target us as “faggots” or “trannies” regardless of what words we use.  There is a shared goal that unites us, regardless of ideology, and that is personally relevant for us. Allyship in identity politics is usually not like the Allies of World War Two.  On the surface, at least, it’s about shared goals, but these goals are not equally relevant to both groups.  Bathroom rights are tangible to me but abstract to a gay man who never imagines using the women’s room. Same-sex marriage is important to my gay and lesbian friends, and even to my trans friends who may be in a relationship that would be denied recognition under certain laws, but to me it’s abstract. On the surface, again, there is often an appeal to principles. Just as the Allies in World War II talked about Freedom and Civilization, allies in today’s identity politics appeal to Equality, Fairness, Acceptance and Mutual Respect.  In theory that should be enough.  Don’t you want fairness for everyone?  Just sign onto our agenda! In practice, high-minded principles like Fairness and Acceptance go out the window when they conflict with Our Goals, just like Freedom and Civilization went out the window when it looked like the Soviet Union might take over all of Germany.  You can expect some individuals to hold to principles, but politicians rarely do.  We kind of understood that after World War II, but we have trouble with it when it comes to LGBT alliances. On a deeper level there’s more to alliances than that.  I’ll get to it in a future post. Allies Articles Categorization Verbal Hygiene What is an ally? Some people seem perplexed that sometimes I talk as though transvestites and transsexuals are the same, and sometimes as though they’re different.  There’s really no mystery here, though: in some ways we’re similar and in other ways we’re different.  It’s like cats and dogs: they’re similar in lots of ways, and different in others. In future posts I’ll talk a bit about ways that we’re different, but tonight I want to focus on what we have in common: feelings.  In particular, the desire to be “the other” gender and unhappiness with “the current” gender.  I’ve found that these two feelings are present to some degree in every trans person I’ve met, whether transsexual, transvestite, cross-dresser, drag queen, two spirit, queen, genderqueer, genderfluid, non binary or anything else under the umbrella. There have been some arguments lately about whether you have to be dysphoric to be “really trans.”  Some have claimed that if you don’t hate every minute of your life as your assigned gender, you’re not part of the club.  Some have argued that you need “body dysphoria” – a hatred of everything that feels like the gender you were assigned.  My body dysphoria is relatively mild and mostly involves my weight, but gender dysphoria in general captures a lot of what I feel like I have in common with transitioners and other trans people. The desire to be the other gender is not the same as dysphoria, but it is connected to dysphoria.  Some people feel dysphoria but not desire, others feel desire but not dysphoria, and many feel both.  There are other feelings as well, particularly gender fog, that seem pretty common; I invite you to look at my list of feelings and see which ones you feel, which ones you don’t feel, and which feelings you feel that I didn’t list. It’s important to point out that these feelings are never constant.  No feelings are.  I’ve seen a lot of people post on Reddit and Tumblr that their dysphoria or desire seems to have recently increased, or diminished, or even disappeared entirely.  That’s normal. These feelings can also be connected to thoughts about the short term or the long term.  Some people want to be a man for the rest of their lives, and some people want to stop being a man for the rest of their lives.  Some people just want to be a woman for a day or an evening, and some people just want to stop being a woman for a year, or an hour, or long enough to get past those guys on the corner. I said that every trans person I met has expressed one of these two feelings, but I don’t want to go from there to making universal claims about who’s trans and who isn’t.  I’m open to the possibility that there are people who don’t feel these feelings, but are still trans in some meaningful way. I also want to point out that a lot of so-called “cis” people have had these feelings at some point.  In general, I have the impression that most people who would call themselves “trans” have the feelings more often, and more intensely, than others.  But I regularly hear about people who have fairly intense dysphoria or desire who say that they’re not trans. As Jamison Green said, “there is NOT one way to be transgender,” and there is not one set of actions to take in response to these feelings.  In recent posts I’ve talked about transgender feelings and beliefs, and I’ll talk about transgender actions in future posts. These feelings aren’t the only thing that trans people have in common, but they’re a major source of the things we have in common.  We do have things that separate us, and I’ll talk about those in future posts as well. Articles Categorization Feelings We are the same… Do I contradict myself? Very well, then, I contradict myself. I am large, I contain multitudes. -Walt Whitman When I posted my transgender feelings in January, there were some interesting reactions.  I want to clarify some of what I said and elaborate a bit. Feelings and beliefs A number of people interpreted my reports of trans feelings as evidence for “interiority” – claims that I’m really a woman inside.  These interpretations are understandable given how often other trans people offer their own feelings – or simply the word “trans” – as part of such arguments.  They’re inaccurate, though: as I wrote in a subsequent post, I find it hard to believe in anything as ineffable as a gender identity or an inner woman, and I don’t ask anyone else to.   Feelings are irrational Some people were bothered by how little sense my feelings made, and how to some extent they rested on idealizations, fantasies and media images.  I think it’s because when they talk about their own feelings, they expect them to make sense.  I’m sorry, but I’ve long ago given up on expecting my feelings or anyone else’s to make sense.  I thought I made that clear in the post.  Maybe my feelings are more irrational than other people’s, but I don’t think so. It’s normal for feelings to conflict with each other I feel both a desire to be a woman and a desire to be a man.  Some people take that as evidence that a person is “not really trans,” that they’re bigender or something.  I take it as evidence that they’re human.  I find it hard to believe there’s a person on this planet who hasn’t felt both of these desires.  I find it harder to believe that there’s a trans person who doesn’t feel some desire for their assigned gender, or some discomfort with their target gender. Moving toward and away from genders When I posted about my trans feelings, I included both a desire to be a woman and a desire to not be a man.  I think those feelings coexist, but they’re not the same thing, and it’s useful to be able to distinguish them.  Similarly, sometimes I feel a desire to be a man, and a desire to not be a woman, which are also distinct feelings. Articles Feelings Some thoughts about feelings You may remember the movie Mrs. Doubtfire, where Robin Williams plays a divorced actor who can only spend time with his kids by posing as an elderly woman and getting hired as their nanny.  In the climactic scene, the actor is pitching his idea for a new kids’ show to a producer over dinner in one dining room of a fancy restaurant, while in another room his kids need Mrs. Doubtfire.  Amid numerous quick-changes in a single-user bathroom, hilarity ensues. That scene may seem like pure comedy, but like all comedy it exaggerates a real and often painful aspect of our lives: identity stress.  We all – trans people and everyone else – take on multiple roles in our lives, some gendered, some not.  Sometimes you’re the teacher, sometimes the student.  Sometimes you’re the artist, sometimes the subject.  And often you’re nobody in particular, just a person on the street. Each of those roles comes with different standards of behavior and the expectation of different treatment, and that can be more stressful than the different clothing that is sometimes expected.  When someone who is used to being treated as a Very Important Person is confronted with the expectations of ordinary people, like getting pulled over for speeding or having to wait on line, a common response is, “Do you know who I am?” This identity stress can be particularly acute for trans people, or anyone who takes transgender actions, whether they identify as trans or not.  About eight years ago, Norah Vincent wrote a fascinating book called Self-Made Man, where she presented as a man called Ned and participated in a series of male-dominated activities such as competitive bowling and hard selling.  She personally identifies as a non-trans lesbian and never had any intention to transition, but she felt what I call transgender feelings: a desire to be a man in order to escape some of the burden of her gender and partake in male privilege. In the last section of her book, Vincent participates in a Robert Bly-style drum circle ceremony, and surprises the group leader by asking him to cut her with a knife.  This feeling, relatively common among some women but so foreign to the type of man who typically takes part in drum circles, shocked and surprised the leader.  Shortly after, Vincent checked herself into a mental hospital.  She writes: When I plucked out, one by one, my set of gendered characteristics, and slotted in Ned’s, unknowingly I drove the slim end of a wedge into my sense of self, and as I lived as Ned, growing into his life and conjured place in the world, a fault line opened in my mind, precipitating small and then increasingly larger seismic events in my subconscious until the stratum finally gave. … Ned had built up in my system over time.  This allowed me to convey him more convincingly as the project went on, but it was also what made me buckle eventually under his weight.  It was to be expected.  As one rare (rare because insightful) psychiatrist would later put it to me when I declared that my breakdown would surely impeach me as a narrative, and hence impugn the whole project, “On the contrary, having done what you did, I would have thought you were crazy if you hadn’t had a breakdown.” I’ve never had experiences like Norah Vincent’s “project,” or the restaurant scene in Mrs. Doubtfire, but I have felt similarly torn between two identities.  Setting aside presentation fatigue, if you have distinct presentations with distinct voices and mannerisms it takes time and effort to do the switch, mentally and emotionally.  It also takes effort to keep them separate, to avoid using the wrong voice or the wrong walk.  This can actually be fun once in a while, when it’s the point of the activity, but sometimes you just want to get a cup of coffee. If you have any significant social interaction in an identity you will make social investments that are specific to that identity and difficult to transfer.  Vincent made friends in her bowling team and other activities, and on 20/20 she met some of them as Norah for the first time.  It seems clear to me that part of what precipitated her emotional crisis was the realization that she couldn’t have the same relationships with these guys without continuing to interact as Ned. I’ve heard from other “part time” trans people that they have some people who know them in one identity and some in the other, without much overlap.  This might be sustainable for someone who has lots of free time and energy to manage these mini-transitions, but it goes way beyond the minor identity stress that the rest of us deal with.  I think that’s one reason you see so few people who lead that kind of double life. Actions Articles Feelings Media Identity stress In 2011, transgender comedian Eddie Izzard was interviewed on the Australian talk show The Project.  As clips from Izzard’s live shows played, one of the interviewers said, “It’s wonderful watching these highlights, it’s a journey of outfits for you.  Famously, you’ve dressed up in women’s dresses.”  Izzard responded, “No, I wear dresses.  They’re my dresses, I buy them.  It’s like when women wear trousers, they’re not cross-dressing.  They’re not wearing men’s trousers, they’re wearing trousers.”  Someone liked that quote enough that they made one of those distracting animated gif sets that are all over Tumblr, and people have been reblogging it around the world.  After it showed up on my dash for the third or fourth time I said, “I gotta write a post about this. Izzard is probably the trans person I admire most in the world, but I disagree with him on this.”  The Transfeminist Geometer said, “Let me know if you write a post. I agree pretty strongly with Eddie Izzard, so I’d be interested to read it.”  And here it is. There is one interpretation of “they’re my dresses” that could be said by someone who identifies as a woman.  It means that of course they’re women’s dresses, because I’m a woman, so there’s nothing noteworthy about me wearing them. I don’t think Izzard is identifying as a woman here, with his beard and all (although it would be damn radical if he did).  I think he’s saying it as a statement of sartorial freedom, along the lines of the people who make utilikilts, and the fashionistas who tell us every so often that this is the year when men will start wearing skirts again.  It means that these dresses may have been designed for women, but once I pay for them they’re mine, so they’re men’s dresses or transvestite’s dresses or something. I disagree with Izzard here because for me the point is that they are women’s dresses.  I don’t have any particular interest in a utilikilt or a men’s skirt.  In fact, last week I went out wearing leggings under a sweater and jacket, but I’m thinking I don’t feel like wearing that anymore because they looked too much like the kind of spandex pants a guy might wear. It’s like if you imagine a society in the future where everyone wears identical jumpsuits, but the women’s jumpsuits have one button more than the men’s.  The transvestites will all want that extra button.  Not because they like an extra button, but because it’s a woman’s button.  That’s why I have women’s dresses in my closet.  My women’s dresses. Obviously, Izzard has a right to his own feelings about his dresses.  He’s not wrong for that, and neither is the dude in a utilikilt, or the transwoman who buys her women’s pants at the Men’s Wearhouse.  My disagreement with them is purely that I having different feelings. But I wonder how different Izzard’s feelings really are.  It’s possible that he thought that up just because he was tired of answering the same question about “women’s dresses” for so many years and wanted to say something different, just to mix things up and be funny.  Kind of like I’m pretty sure he was joking when he told Greg Kilborn that the police shot him for shoplifting a makeup kit when he was a teenager. Articles Media Verbal Hygiene They’re my women’s dresses I grew up in the seventies, with “future shock” and other environmental doom about out of control population growth.  The argument makes a certain sense: we have only so much room, and we can only grow so much food.  As Malthus observed over two hundred years ago, if the population increases faster than the carrying capacity of the land, misery is the result.  The more people we have, the more hunger and pollution. Imagine my surprise, then, when I started to hear stories on the news that were concerned with declining birth rates.  Low birth rates can lead to work going undone, especially work supporting the elderly.  It can lead to the bankruptcy of pension plans and even Social Security.  They tell us it’s depopulated Russia, and the Japanese are worrying too!  So which is it? Is a low birth rate good or bad?  Do these people even talk to each other?  And what does all this have to do with transgender issues? I’ll connect this with trans politics in another post, but first, a low birth rate seems to be good for the planet overall.  The population bomb people and the low birth rate people don’t talk so much to each other, but there are occasional examples.  Matthew Connelly and Hans Rosling observe that as women get more power, education and birth control, populations stabilize, so they predict that the world’s population will stabilize as more regions industrialize. One key thing to note about the “low birth rate” alarmism is that it’s almost never about the worldwide birth rate.  It’s about the birth rate of a country, an ethnic group, a religious group or even a race, relative to another.  You can see that in the concerns of Cardinal Meiser and the Russian elites, which are both about “the Muslims” outbreeding “us” – German or Russian Christians.  And if you’re concerned about that race part, that should tip you off about the others, because they’re basically the same thing.  A race is just an ethnic or religious group fortified with biological essentialism. Concern about national birth rates is also the same as concern about ethnic birth rates, because low national birth rates are only a cause for concern if there are strong restrictions on migration.  If population levels are the only reason for concern, then immigration is just as good a remedy as procreation. At its root of all of this lies a desire for more “us” and less “them.”  This is an ancient tribal feeling, and it makes perfect sense from an evolutionary point of view.  But from the point of view of fairness and kindness, it sucks.  “Us and them” is fundamentally opposed to “all men are created equal.” Obsession with “our” birth rate is part of the reason some parts of the world are still struggling with overpopulation.   It’s also a primary motivator for hatred of trans people.  I’ll get into all that in a future post, but in the meantime when you hear concern about birth rates, take it with a grain of salt. Articles Media Patriarchy Concerns about birth rate concerns A few years ago I was shopping for clothes at a chain store in New York City.  I had already tried on several dresses, and had found a nice suit I wanted to buy.  As I was handing my discards to the changing room attendant, she said, “You need to use the changing room on the third floor.” I had a guess as to what that might be about, but it still hurt to get off the escalator and see that the third floor was all menswear.  There was no way I was marching in to the men’s changing room in a skirt and makeup.  I brought my dresses back down to the first floor changing room.  When the attendant saw me she said, “Oh you’re back,” but she still led me to a room. The winter before last I was in a different store, shopping for a coat, wearing full makeup and jewelry (see the photo above).  I went up to the mezzanine, where most of the women’s clothes were.  A salesclerk asked if she could help me, so I asked where the coats were.  She told me the basement, so I took the elevator down to find only menswear.  I went back up and found the women’s coats on the ground floor.  I didn’t buy anything. Instead I went to a different store and found a nice coat.  When I got to the counter the clerk looked me up and down, gave me a big smile and said, “You look great, girl!  Going out tonight?” Last week I didn’t even want to go shopping, but my boots were a little too big, so I went looking for some socks.  figured it was a good time to buy some of the over-the-calf socks that were in style this winter.  I went into a store, but the only women’s socks I saw, a small display by the cash registers, were ankle socks. I looked around, and found a sign saying that in the basement they had men’s clothes and women’s clothes.  I went downstairs, and the only socks I saw were men’s socks.  I was heading for the escalator when a salesclerk asked if she could help me find anything. “Socks,”  I said. “Right over here.”  She led me back to the men’s socks. “Those are men’s socks.” “Right.  You wanted – oh.” She saw the look on my face and immediately apologized.  She asked a co-worker where the women’s socks were, and he told her upstairs, by the register.  As she led me back there she explained that she only really knew her department.  And she told me I looked very good. These four experiences have really clarified my understanding of microaggressions.  The first experience, being told to change on the third floor, was ambiguous until I saw that the changing rooms on the third floor were for men.  Because there was no way to avoid that fact, the attendant’s order was not a microaggression, it was just plain aggression.  It was a way for her to tell me I wasn’t welcome in her changing room. The fourth experience, being led to the men’s socks, wasn’t aggression at all.  Women shop for men’s clothes all the time: for themselves, and for their husbands and boyfriends and sons. The salesclerk thought that was what I was doing.  It hadn’t occurred to her that I could have been misdirected by the signs.  I reacted strongly because I had had two negative experiences before. The second example, being sent to the basement, is a classic microaggression. As Taylor Jones explained so well, microaggressions require ambiguity and plausible deniability.  If I had tried to report the clerk, I’m guessing she would have claimed it was an honest mistake, that she thought I was a man who wanted to buy a men’s coat.  To this day I myself still sometimes wonder. The third example, receiving exaggerated compliments when I was just buying a coat, is a type of interaction that has sometimes been called microaggression.  I didn’t really appreciate it because it felt forced, and it felt like the clerk wouldn’t have complimented me that way if she hadn’t thought I was trans.  But it wasn’t a microaggression, because there was no possible interpretation that suggested any intent to hurt me.  I had the impression that the clerk was not just saying these things to close the sale and make me want to come back, but because she wanted to be nice to a trans person.  Again, not ideal, but I’ll take it. “Microaggression” is a useful term precisely because it is so specific.  It covers behavior where the intent may be aggressive, but the speaker can plausibly deny having any such intent.  It does not cover situations where aggressive intent can be easily established, or where there is no evidence of any aggressive intent.  Including those situations dilutes the concept. Articles Personal news Verbal Hygiene What microaggressions are and aren’t Someone got angry about my post on trans feelings, but on reading between the nastiness, she seemed to be mostly angry because she assumed I was claiming an “interiority” – her word – that my feelings were evidence of “interior womanhood.”  I can understand why she thought that, because so many trans people do, but I don’t make any such claim. Personally, I practice skepticism.  In general I try to minimize the number of things in the world I take on faith.  I find it comforting, particularly in understanding transgender feelings and actions.  But in talking about trans phenomena, my skepticism conflicts with the way a lot of other people talk about those things.  The key difference is in talking about transgender beliefs, specifically the concept of gender identity.  But you don’t have to espouse trans beliefs to understand trans feelings or to argue for fairness and respect. The typical story is that “trans women are women” and “trans men are men,” supported by a number of dubious and hotly contested brain studies.  On this basis, everyone is asserted to have a “gender identity,” an “innate sense of their own gender,” and that is taken as the person’s “authentic,” essential gender.  Often this is invoked to argue that it is the person’s destiny to transition.  Genderqueer, genderfluid and other non-binary people are declared to be a mixture of brain genders on the basis of simple analogy, and the implication is that their only true path is to express gender in the corresponding proportions. The critical thing here is that very few trans or genderqueer people have actually undergone a brain scan.  Most of the studies that people typically cite were actually performed on the cadavers of trans women.  Of course, trans people typically want to stay alive; many even frame it as transition or die. The official basis for determining gender identity is thus a simple declaration: “I’m really a woman.”  You can see why a skeptical approach would have trouble with all of this.  If the primary basis for determining gender identity is a belief that we are “really” a different gender from what most people think, and I try not to believe anything without sufficient evidence, how can I as have any gender identity and still maintain my skepticism? But wait, there’s more!  The typical story is that gender identity is innate and unchanging, but anyone who has spent time around non-transitioners, non-binary people and people near the edge of the “transgender umbrella” like cross-dressers, drag queens, and people exploring gender, has seen things that give the lie to this idea.  I’ve seen all manner of people who one day explain that they’re “just” men who feel a little feminine, and the next swear up and down that they’ve always felt like women. In individual practice, one person’s determination of another’s gender identity is even more subjective than that.  Typically, a simple claim of belief is not accepted without at least a declaration of intent to transition, but some people will overrule that based on their impressions of the other’s masculinity.  Often, a person will accept another as trans (and thus as their desired gender) based on a declaration, but then question that gender if they do not demonstrate satisfactory progress in transitioning.  Frequently, a trans or genderqueer person will make no profession of belief, but another person will make claims about that person’s gender identity based on evidence of transition, passability or impressions of femininity. From a skeptical perspective, this evidence is unsatisfactory on three levels.  First, we’re expected to accept gender identity on the basis of professed belief, which is inherently untrustworthy.  Second, we’re asked to accept these beliefs as evidence of an innate, eternal state, even when they have changed.  Third, we’re asked to accept beliefs, reported second or thirdhand, that are sometimes invented or assumed by the people reporting them. Sorry, I can’t do it.  I’m not going to spend years of my life resisting a belief in Satan or Pachamama, and then turn around and accept the Authentic Self without question.  I don’t even really believe I have a pancreas, let alone an “interiority.”  I accept that I probably do have a pancreas because the biologists seem to be right about fingers and sinuses and stuff, but claims of interior womanhood are a lot less reliable.  So I don’t claim a gender identity for myself or anyone else. The challenge is that I also want to be respectful and to fight for fair treatment for myself and other trans people.  I can do that, because I don’t need to believe people’s beliefs to believe and honor their feelings, to treat people fairly and with respect.  I just need to believe in their essential humanity.  It works for me with Mormons and Buddhists, and it works with people who believe in gender identity.  I wish more people would try it! Articles Beliefs Feelings Skepticism and trans beliefs I’m frustrated.  I just put together a draft post about how it’s hard for me, as a trans person who tries to be skeptical, to believe in gender identity. Now, television psychiatrist Dr. Keith Ablow has written that he doesn’t believe in gender identity, and uses that in an argument that children shouldn’t be allowed to choose the gender of the bathroom they use.  And then professional troll Bryan J Fischer picks up on it, citing “the truth that we find in the Scriptures.”  Great.  Well, let me deal with these guys first. Screen capture by Media MattersThere’s not much to say about Fischer.  Despite centuries of trying, nobody’s yet found scientific proof of the existence of God, or Satan, or the “truth” of the Bible, or the effectiveness of prayer.  If you’re going to believe in those, you might as well believe in gender identity, the True Self, the Authentic You, and the Two Spirits.  Or not. Ablow (who in happier days provided a national platform for Betty Crow to declare her transition) has an argument that’s a bit more challenging because it’s not so obviously faith-based.  Yet, right at the point where he begins to challenge bathroom rights, he admits that “data is sorely lacking” to support the idea that if kids are exposed to other kids with female anatomy who are treated like boys it will “do harm to their own developing sense of self.”  And yet he feels that the possibility is so strong that we need to protect kids from it. Later he claims, with absolutely no supporting argument, that he doesn’t see “anything but toxicity from the notion of a person with female anatomy feeling free to use the urinal in the boys’ rest room while a boy stands next to her and uses one, too,” and warns that bathroom rights will create “completely unnecessary anxiety related to whether they should be doing some sort of emotional inventory to determine whether they’re really going to turn into men, once and for all, or find out they’ve been suppressing the truth that they’re actually women.” There is a coherent argument in the piece: that it is a lie to say that the question of gender identity is settled to the point where we can simply take someone’s word about what their gender is.  So far, that’s a solid skeptical observation: the whole business with uterine hormone baths and the bed of the stria terminalis is pretty shaky science, but trans dogmatists claim that it’s The Established Truth.  It’s pretty strong to say it’s a lie; it’s more like wishful thinking. Now, it is this “lie” that Ablow claims will harm the children’s sense of self more than the gender stuff.  But if you think about it, that’s a really weird idea.  Kids are constantly being lied to by adults about everything from the Easter Bunny to Moses parting the Red Sea.  Did I miss the editorial where Ablow denounced the threat to kids’ sense of self posed by the myth of hairy palms?  Where did he call for the impeachment of President Bush for “a powerful, devious and pathological way to weaken them by making them question their sense of safety, security and certainty about anything and everything” – this myth of the War on Terror? It’s pretty clear that this argument about “a lie that can steal their ability to trust adults” is bullshit.  Ablow doesn’t actually believe that adults lying to kids is that big a threat.  His skepticism about trans dogma is just a fig leaf for his true concerns (completely unsupported by any evidence) that kids will catch the trans from their classmates. A true skeptic who was genuinely concerned about this issue might call for a temporary moratorium on bathroom rights, but would want to see the issue explored as soon as possible.  After all, it’s obvious that the kids who want to live as the other gender aren’t being well served by the current system.  It’s a testable hypothesis, this idea that kids can catch the trans by being around other kids whose non-normative gender expression is tolerated by authority figures.  You might expect that a freethinker like Dr. Keith would want to investigate this hypothesis.  For some reason I’m skeptical. Articles Bathrooms Beliefs General News Media Skepticism, faith and fearmongering I wrote this a couple of weeks ago in response to a discussion about high heels and the patriarchy on Tumblr: Yes, it is important to remember that high heels have all kinds of problems. In addition to the health problems mentioned, it’s hard to run away from predators in them. It’s hard to move nimbly at all, unless you have a lot of practice with them. Some people wear them every day and never manage to be graceful in them. Riding a bike in heels is fine, especially with flat pedals.But there is that fantasy. When I’m sitting by the window and I hear heels clicking on the pavement below, I imagine a slim, elegant, sexy young woman outside on her way to an editing job at Conde Nast, or a fancy cocktail party. I imagine myself in those heels, strutting down the sidewalk, turning heads, instead of sitting at my computer grading homeworks or debugging code. And then sometimes I get a chance to put on my own heels and go clicking down the sidewalk in Greenwich Village. At first I feel elegant and sexy and I see men and women looking at me, but are they looking because they think I’m elegant, or because they think I look silly? Are the heels making too much noise? I want to go faster but I can’t without worrying about slipping or losing my balance. Watch out for those cobblestones! One of my heels just got stuck in the subway grate. And then my feet start to hurt. I have to walk even slower. Can I still look elegant with my feet hurting so much? Fortunately the creepy guy who was following me and saying “hey baby” seems to have given up and gone away. So I take the shoes off at the end of the day and my feet are sore for days. I’m glad I don’t have to wear those every day! I would get used to them to a degree, but never completely. Imagine if I had a job where they expected it? But in a few days I hear heels clicking outside my window again and I don’t think about how much of the attention was unwelcome. I don’t think about how physically painful it was to walk in them. I don’t think about how limited my movement felt. I just think about how elegant and sexy the wearer of those shoes must be. The disconnect doesn’t just apply to the person who’s wearing heels. I fantasize about dating or kissing elegant women in heels, but I know plenty of women who wear heels that I have absolutely no desire to kiss. I’ve been on dates with women who were sexy, even elegant, but distracted and uncomfortable in their heels. I’ve been on dates with women who were sexier and more elegant in flats. I’ve gone on long, romantic walks that wouldn’t have been possible if either of us had been wearing heels. And I’ve had fabulous sex with women who’ve worn heels maybe five days in their entire lives. That disconnect between fantasy and reality is a perfect example of glamour. It’s a fantasy that persists, sometimes in the face of massive evidence. It’s important to acknowledge it and examine it, but a massive guilt trip is not the way to stop it. Articles Glamour Grooming The glamour of high heels After I posted my take on the “transgender/transgendered” debate on Facebook, a friend-of-a-friend who’s a gay man with some inside knowledge mentioned that in deciding to endorse “transgender,” his organization talked to representatives of several national transgender organizations.  While that’s way better than nothing, it’s not enough information for them to be able to say “this is what the trans community wants.”  These “leaders” don’t actually represent any of us.  There is no way to find out what “the trans community” wants, because we don’t have a collective decision-making process. Whether it’s the “-ed” suffix, the space in “trans woman,” the use of the “cis-” prefix, the declaration of “transvestite” as taboo, the freakout over “princex,” generally the proclamation du jour of this term or that as being preferred, dispreferred, offensive, indispensable, etc. – it’s all one single person’s opinion, more or less well informed.  If it gets picked up by two people, then it’s three people’s opinion.  It never gets to be what “the trans community” wants. None of these people asked me if, as a linguist, I approved of the term “cis.” Nobody asked me if, as a sociolinguist, I agreed that it would be good for trans rights to declare “transvestite” taboo.  Nobody asked me if, as a trans person, I wanted people to use the space in “trans woman” to browbeat potential allies.  I never got a ballot for the referendum, and I never got to vote for a rep to the Trans Grand Council. More importantly, nobody sends magical owls to make sure that all the closeted transvestites and stealth transsexuals get their ballots.  Nobody badgers the trans people who might be kind of busy with work, or raising kids, or next week’s model railroad exhibition, to make sure they take the time to register their opinions on the matter. No, what we get are the voices of people who are thinking about this stuff all the time.  Those who spend their hours on Tumblr and Facebook puzzling out the optimal arrangement of acronyms, affixes and punctuation to finally bring down the patriarchy.  Those who collect dues with the promise of lobbying our elected officials to pass laws protecting us, and can’t stop thinking about it on their downtime.  And of course, those who are in mid-transition and living with the trans nonstop and completely unable to think of anything else.  Not exactly representative of all trans people. So if you’re not trans, please do me a favor: the next time you read about the Words Not to Say on Buzzfeed, or get your ear bent by your buddy Kyle about how appropriative some punctuation mark is, or hear from the Legislative Director of the National Council on Trans Women-Gender/Rights that “trans” is exclusionary, please take it with a grain of salt.  And if you are trans, the next time you get that great idea about How the Ampersand Oppresses the People, please use I statements.  Don’t claim that you, or anyone, knows what “the trans community” thinks or wants or believes.  We don’t hold elections, and we definitely didn’t elect you. Articles Media Verbal Hygiene We don’t hold elections The “transgender/transgendered” debate popped up tonight, first on a Q&A by Zinnia Jones (aka Lauren McNamara):  Point: The structure of “transgendered” suggests action, as if it were something you were subject to – that you are a person who has been “transgendered” and that is the reason why you exist in your present state. We wouldn’t say “gayed” or “lesbianed”. Counter-point: Other words of similar construction, like “gifted” or “left-handed”, do not imply action, or that you’re only this way because you were subjected to something. Meta-point: “Transgendered” bothers some people and use of it will lead to this coming up and distracting from whatever you were originally talking about. “Transgender” does not pose this issue. Therefore, use of “transgender” is preferred.  Ali Edwards expanded on it for her transgenderscience Tumblr:  All excellent points. To add a linguistic angle: Adjectives with -ed endings tend to express emotions and feelings. “I am frightened,” “That is amazing,” etc. Adjectives with -ed were also almost always originally verbs (to frighten, to amaze). In fact, that’s why “gifted” has the -ed — it’s built of the old verb form of to gift.   Transgender is not a verb. You can’t “transgender” something. A lot of transphobes believe you can, (“These durn libbruls are gonna transgender my boy if we don’t stop ‘em!”), but you can’t.  Transgender is an adjective, though, and as Lauren pointed out it describes a “state.” Like most adjectives that describe qualities of a noun, it doesn’t take a suffix. The sky is not “blued,” it’s “blue.” The glass is not “half-fulled,” it’s “half-full”. My mom isn’t “femaled,” she’s “female.” And I am not “transgendered,” I am “transgender.”  For a real linguistic angle, let me as a linguist endorse the explanation of my friend Pauline Park (who is not a linguist):  Adding an ‘ed’ to a verb to create an adjective is in fact a very common construction in English, and the fact that an adjective is created from a verb doesn’t mean that it isn’t an adjective. Similarly with ‘transgendered.’ When we talk about people, we ordinarily say that they are ‘gendered,’ using an adjective created by adding ‘ed’ to ‘gender.’ It would be both grammatically incorrect as well as bizarre to say that a child is ‘gender,’ while it makes perfect sense to say that a child is ‘gendered.’ Now, I do use ‘transgender’ as an adjective to describe certain entities that are abstract, such as ‘transgender law,’ ‘transgender studies,’ and ‘transgender community,’ because it is the people — not the law, the studies, or the community — that are transgendered. So it is not at all inconsistent when I refer to myself as a ‘transgendered woman’ and also as a ‘transgender activist,’ because in the latter case, it is I who am transgendered, not my activism. Similarly, NYAGRA is a transgender organization, not a ‘transgendered’ organization, because an organization itself cannot be transgendered, only its members.  Trousered, not pantsed.  And yes, this spot in my apartment has good lighting. Expanding on Pauline’s perspective, and on Jones’s counter-point, there are lots of nouns that get “verbed” (Calvin and Hobbes, 1993) and then have -ed added to make them adjectives, like “armored, varicolored, half-timbered, leisured, trousered.”  There’s no implication of action.  You can’t transgender someone, but neither can you leisure, varicolor or trouser them.  (You can pants them, but that’s something else.) To Jones’s meta-point: Yeah, people are ignorant about language.  Sometimes it’s a distraction, and you use the terms they want and move on.  Sometimes (especially on Tumblr) language is the focus of discussion, and that’s the time to bring the science. Two points: (1) Note that both Jones and Edwards use the passive (“is preferred”) and similar constructions in their prescriptions, to deflect attention away from their roles and onto the wishes of the amorphous community.  (2) Note that Edwards (who is not a linguist) cites no linguistic papers for her “linguistic angle.”  I don’t either, and neither does Jones, but there’s a huge contrast between this post and her heavily-linked posts on biology and psychology. In fact, it would be nice to get the perspective of an actual trained morphologist on this.  Anybody want to go there? Finally, anyone who thinks that these “-ed” adjectives are an insult?  Well, they sound like very gifted and cultured people. Articles Media Verbal Hygiene Why I prefer “transgendered” I used to think I didn’t have body dysphoria. I definitely don’t have it the way some people report it.  For example, here’s a famous description from Lydia K.: So you run your internal gender_check and get nothing as a response: you@body# gender_check you@body# Return code is zero, nothing is printed out, everything is all good, and you think “I have no idea what these people are talking about, there isn’t anything here.”. When a trans person runs their gender_check they get a slew of errors, a spewage of various issues that need to be addressed No, my nervous system doesn’t randomly run a “gender check” and come back with an error.  By and large, I’m satisfied with my genitals.  It can be a pain (literally!) to tuck them out of sight when I’m presenting as a woman, but they fit my usual male presentation.  I think they’re pretty nice looking, and fun to play with, and chicks dig ’em (okay, my wife digs ’em).  If I woke up without them one day I’d make do, but otherwise they’re not going anywhere and I’m fine with that too. I do actually feel dissatisfied with my body.  Primarily it’s a weight issue, because for most of my life so far I was on the slim side.  Then in my late twenties I got the “middle-aged spread.”  I felt fine through all the childhood growth changes and a full male puberty, but it was the weight that felt foreign.  Ever since I was about 27 I’ve looked in the mirror and thought, “that’s not me, that doesn’t belong there.”  I’ve lost a little weight over the past few years, but a lot of it has come off my legs.  I look great from the waist down, but sometimes my shoulder-to-hip ratio really jumps out at me in the mirror and in pictures, and I feel frustrated and discouraged. The part that bothers me most is my belly.  My shoulders and ribcage have also grown since then, which is perfectly normal for adult men, but I miss the time when my shoulders weren’t much broader than those of the average woman my height.  And yes, I know that there are XX, women-raised-women with my shape, but most of them don’t have deep voices and big hands and thick facial hair to deal with too. So yes, sometimes I do feel uncomfortable having broad shoulders and a penis, but only when I’m actively thinking about presenting as a woman.  Otherwise I have the same body dysphoria that a lot of formerly thin people have. Does that mean I’m not trans?  Far from it.  I still periodically feel a desire to be a woman, and sometimes I feel sad when I’m not seen as a woman.  There are lots of trans people like me who don’t have heavy body dysphoria, and many of us have quite satisfactory transitions. So in addition to the feelings I have, which I described in this post, we can add that some people have this “gender check” type of body dysphoria.  Just not all of us. You’ll notice that in my last post I used “I statements,” talking about the feelings that I personally feel or have felt.  I don’t claim to know what “a trans person” feels, unless that trans person is me.  Lydia K. doesn’t know what “a trans person” feels either unless that trans person is her, and I wish she’d stop pretending she does. Articles Feelings The feelings we don’t all feel I’ve talked before about how counterproductive it is to talk about the trans (or anything) in terms of categorizing people, and recommended instead that we talk about our transgender feelings and beliefs, and the actions we take in response to those. Here, then, is a first attempt at cataloging transgender feelings.  Essentially I’m writing down feelings associated with transgender events or thoughts, or with trans people.  If I’ve written about that feeling before, I’ve tried to link to that post. This is not meant to be an exhaustive list, just a starting point.  Please feel free to point out any that you think I’ve missed. I recently wrote that everyone’s actions are non binary in that they cross somebody’s line between men and women.  Trans feelings are similar: as I write down the feelings I’ve felt and heard and read about, I realize how many of my friends and family have had similar feelings.  Not all trans people have all these feelings. It’s important to remember that feelings aren’t always logical.  They’re responses to things that happen to us.  Sometimes they’re rational, and sometimes they aren’t.  That’s okay. A lot of these feelings are superficial.  That’s in part because I’ve focused on specifically transgender feelings, and some of them are superficial.  It’s not that I don’t have deeper feelings, it’s just that those feelings are more universal and less trans-specific.  Sometimes I feel sad.  I feel sad that when I’m naked and I look in the mirror I don’t see a beautiful woman.  I feel sad that I don’t always see a beautiful woman when I’m wearing women’s clothes, and sometimes I don’t even see someone who looks like a woman.  I feel sad when I hear women admiring each other’s clothing or grooming, but I’m afraid to tell them about my own women’s clothing or grooming, let alone show them.  I feel sad when I see women being admired, but I don’t see any reason for anyone to admire me. Sometimes I feel frustrated.  I feel frustrated when I spend an hour on my makeup and am told to try on clothes in the men’s changing room.  I feel frustrated when I’m in a room full of women who are attracted to women, and none of them show an interest in me.  I feel frustrated that I have to spend an hour on makeup before I can look in the mirror and see a woman. Sometimes I feel anxious.  I feel anxious about being a man, because men are the dangerous ones.  I feel anxious about being perceived as a man in a dress, because people are rude to men in dresses, and often hurt or even kill us.  I feel anxious about attracting people that I’m not attracted to.  Sometimes I feel anxious about just plain being noticed. Sometimes I feel longing.  I long to be sexy, to be attractive, to be stylish.  I long to be admired, to be loved, to be accepted. Sometimes I feel desire.  I want to be a woman.  I want to wear women’s clothes, to be seen as a woman.  I want to be accepted in women’s roles, with the status of woman.  I want someone to tell me I look pretty, or sexy.  As Rick Nielsen said, I want someone to want me. Sometimes I feel sexually aroused.  I feel aroused when a sexy person desires me.  I feel aroused when I look in the mirror or at a picture of me, and see someone who looks sexy.  I feel aroused when I wear sexy clothes.  I feel aroused when I imagine myself looking sexy. Sometimes I feel excited.  I feel excited about people seeing me as a woman.  I feel excited about people admiring me.  I feel excited about trying on new clothes.  I feel excited about losing weight. Sometimes I feel happy.  I feel happy when my gender presentation looks good.  I feel happy when I get comments on my looks.  I would be very surprised if any of you reading this feel the exact same mix of feelings I do.  That’s normal.  We’re all snowflakes.  There is no one way to be trans.  But from conversations I’ve had and descriptions I’ve read, I know that a lot of you have similar feelings.  Please do let me know if there are feelings you’ve had that I haven’t covered. Articles Feelings The feelings we feel I’m reading The People of Sparks with my kid, and it’s a concise, believable depiction of prejudice: how it arises and how to defuse it.  We’ve evolved in tribes, and we have a strong tendency to take tribal solutions to danger and conflict.  Someone’s dangerous? Well, he’s not one of us.  She’s not one of us either, better watch out for her! When we find out that x percent of crimes are committed by y people, our immediate reaction is to avoid all y people.  It doesn’t matter if these crimes are committed by a small percentage of y people, better to avoid them all.  It’s a completely normal and understandable response, and sometimes when you’re under attack it’s the best you can manage, but as DuPrau shows us, it’s often the absolute worst thing you can do. There are “women’s spaces,” because women fear men.  There are whites-only suburbs, because white people fear black and Hispanic people.  There are people who avoid contact with anyone who isn’t LGBT, because they fear straight people. Then there are the numerous posts on Tumblr about “cis” people, as if our danger comes entirely from without.  Posts about what trans men do to trans women, as if trans women didn’t do the exact same things to other trans women. If you’re feeling backed in a corner and assailed from all sides, then go ahead and make whatever generalizations you think will protect you.  But if you’re not, if you’ve got at least some breathing room, I encourage you to take a deep breath and look around.  Because the truth is that safety does not lie with “us.”  No matter how you define “us.” There are trans women who rape.  Trans women who kill.  Trans women who inject each other with silicon.  Trans women who play shitty coercive games.  Trans women who keep other trans women from getting the help we need. Non-trans women? Yeah, some of them rape and murder and exclude other women.  Gay men? Lesbians? Yeah.  White people?  Hell yeah.  Rich people?  You bet. We are not safe around us.  Is anyone safe, then?  Well, nobody’s completely safe, but some people are generally okay.  How do we find them? Well, that’s tricky.  The best way is to observe them, from a distance at first and then gradually closer if they go for a while without doing anything dangerous. In other words, the best way that anyone’s ever found to determine whether someone’s safe: let them earn your trust.  Despite what we’d like to believe, there are no shortcuts. Articles Categorization Kludges Violence We are not safe around us I’ve written about how I don’t feel non-binary because I jump from one side of the binary to the other.  But that’s not all of it: my masculine gender expression (of the two, the one that’s best developed) is not very binary, and never has been.  But I don’t feel like that part is exceptionally non binary.  Everyone’s actions are non binary to one degree or another.  I’ve just been more comfortable with my non binary actions than a lot of other people. The reasons we draw lines between men and women are to decide who gets access to what roles and spaces, what we expect from people, and how we’re going to treat them.  But no matter where we draw the line between men and women, most people are not going to fit perfectly on one side or the other.  I’ve met a lot of people over the years, and when you get to know them, everyone is pretty non-binary. Do I look non-binary to you? As I write this I’m wearing all “men’s” clothes and accessories, bought in the Men’s department.  I have my fingernails cut short, and I shaved my facial hair using a men’s razor.  I’m not wearing makeup.  I’m going to my job as a university professor.  Tomorrow I will go to my research position in computer science, a continuation of my many years working in information technology.  All roles and spaces that have traditionally been “men’s” in middle-class white American society. I’m doing a lot of things that are unmarked for gender.  I’m drinking a latte and riding the subway.  I’m writing on a tablet.  I’m carrying a backpack.  I get together with friends.  I go to political meetings.  I post on Facebook and Twitter and Tumblr and my blogs. In my life as a “guy,” I do some things that have traditionally been “women’s work.”  Tonight I’m going to meet with my kid’s teachers.  Sometimes my wife goes on business trips and I’m taking care of the kid by myself for days on end.  When he was a baby I fed him and changed his diapers.  I buy almost all of my own clothes.  Yesterday I did laundry, for the entire family.  On Friday I’ll cook dinner, and probably buy groceries.  Tomorrow I might clean the bathroom and go to Weight Watchers.  I’ll eat salad.  When I was younger I worked as a secretary and ate Special K cereal.  I’ve studied yoga and dance.  All traditionally women’s roles. Of course, I’ve known women who wear no makeup, who wear “men’s” clothes, who trim their fingernails and even shave their faces.  I have always had plenty of colleagues who were women, in university teaching, in computer science, and in information technology.  There are lots of women in university teaching, but in other parts of the country it’s still unusual for a woman to be paid to open up a computer. I know other guys who take care of their kids, including the feeding and diapers.  I was told once that a particular temp agency in another city would not send men on secretarial assignments, but here in New York I met a number of other male secretaries.  When I’ve traveled, most of the Weight Watchers meetings I’ve been to have been dominated by women, but here I see men at practically every meeting.  Most of the guys I know buy their own clothes, and a lot of them wash the family’s clothes and clean the bathroom and cook dinner.  Whenever I studied yoga or dance, there were other guys there.  I see guys at Just Salad, and maybe even eating Special K.  This means a lot of people crossing traditional gender boundaries. I do know some people who are pretty damn conventional about gender roles.  Women who never wear pants outside the house, men who won’t touch a stove.  People who repeat things that sound like they’re straight out of some Victorian etiquette guide.  But when I’ve gotten to know these people, there’s always something surprising about them.  A woman who started her own business.  A man who raised his kids without a woman in the house.  Every single one.  I’ve never met someone who fit completely within standard gender norms. Now here’s a problem: essentialist stances on gender rely on binary policing.  Whether you say, “all males are men” or “trans women are women,” you’re saying that it matters who’s a man and who’s a woman.  Not that it matters for some practical sense, like bathroom access, but that beyond all practicality, it matters to you.  Otherwise you’d just say that everyone should be allowed to use the bathroom they choose. This is a problem because of all the non binary actions I described, all the people who don’t necessarily identify as “non binary” or transgender, but do things that cross gender boundaries.  No matter where you place the boundaries, some people will cross it, and some will be straddling it. Any essentialist approach to gender based on birth assignment will necessarily leave a lot of people unsatisfied.  An essentialist, binary approach based on socialization will still erase a lot of people by ignoring the messy gray areas of socialization.  An essentialist approach based on professed belief or the observer’s gut feeling (which are the only evidence ever accepted for “gender identity”) ignores and erases my reality, and really, everyone else’s, even if they profess a gender identity, because everyone crosses gender boundaries. So here are my questions to everyone who believes that there are essential differences between men and women, whether by birth assignment, socialization, professed belief, or your personal judgment: When you divide the world of people into men and women, which roles, spaces and treatments are reserved for one gender or the other, and which are open to all?  Does your definition allow my reality?  Who would violate your categories?  What are the consequences? Articles Categorization We are all non binary Via Lectraerror on Tumblr, Amtrak has started a website called “Ride With Pride” to reach out to LGBT passengers: Amtrak believes in diversity. For us, it’s more than a corporate buzzword. It’s an appreciation for all people. We believe every great adventure begins with an amazing experience.  Our goal is to provide that experience, time and time again. It doesn’t matter who goes along for the ride. I’m glad to hear that, but they’ve got their work cut out for them.  I immediately thought about Chelsea Manning’s trip on Amtrak in 2011, and went back to re-read what she told Adrian Lamo.  When one conductor saw the name “Bradley” on her ticket, he intentionally misgendered her in a way that made her uncomfortable:  (03:17:04 PM) bradass87:i went on leave in late january / early february… and… i cross-dressed, full on… wig, breastforms, dress, the works… i had crossdressed before… but i was public… for a few days (03:17:33 PM) bradass87:i blended in…. (03:17:34 PM) bradass87:no-one knew (03:18:06 PM) bradass87:the first thing i learned was that chivalry isn’t dead… men would walk out of their way and open doors for me… it was so weird (03:18:19 PM) info@adrianlamo.com: awww. (03:18:51 PM) bradass87:i was referred to as “Ma’am” or “Miss” at places like Starbucks and McDonalds (hey, im not a fancy eater) (03:19:35 PM) bradass87:i even took the Acela from DC to Boston… whatever compelled me to do that… idk… but i wanted to see my then-still-boyfriend (03:20:01 PM) bradass87:i rode the train, dressed in a casual business outfit (03:20:36 PM) bradass87:i really enjoyed the trip… minus the conductor (03:21:06 PM) bradass87:as he asked for my ID, and clipped my ticket… he made a fuss (03:21:24 PM) info@adrianlamo.com: that sucks =z (03:21:26 PM) bradass87:“Thank you, MISTER Manning…” (03:21:31 PM) info@adrianlamo.com: asshole (03:21:35 PM) info@adrianlamo.com: him, not you (03:21:41 PM) bradass87:i know (03:21:53 PM) bradass87:it was… an experience i wont forget… (03:22:36 PM) bradass87:i mean… 99.9% of people coming from iraq and afghanistan want to come home, see their families, get drunk, get laid… (03:22:56 PM) bradass87:i… wanted to try living as a woman, for whatever reason (03:23:14 PM) bradass87:obviously, its important to me… since there were plenty of other things i could’ve done (03:23:23 PM) info@adrianlamo.com: Overall, how did you feel about your sojourn? (03:25:50 PM) bradass87:idk, i just kind of blended in… i didn’t have to make an effort to do so, it just came naturally… instead of thinking all the time about how im perceived, being self conscious, i just let myself go… …well, i was still self-concious, but in a different way… i was worried about whether i looked pretty, whether my makeup was running, whether i spilled coffee on my (expensive) outfit… and to some extent whether i was passing… (03:28:12 PM) bradass87:but i went to get gas… and bought cigarettes (i know, need to quit)… and the man asked to see my ID… so i did… and he about had a heart attack… he couldn’t hold himself back, he looked up and down twice… and gave me this look like… WTF, it is the same… handed it back to me… and tried to keep himself composed… so i wasn’t worried about whether i was passing as much, because he had no idea whatsoever (03:28:55 PM) info@adrianlamo.com: i smoze zero to five a day myself. (03:29:44 PM) bradass87:but the point was, i guess my face is androgynous enough that i can pass with ease (03:30:11 PM) bradass87:my prominent adams apple is the only issue i was concerned about (03:30:26 PM) bradass87:so i wore a turtleneck, and had collar up with my coat (03:30:29 PM) info@adrianlamo.com: yeah, i’d say that re. the former. (03:30:38 PM) info@adrianlamo.com: which i find cute.  That’s the relevant part, but the whole logs are worth reading. We’re not talking like the conductor couldn’t tell and made a guess.  Manning was wearing business casual women’s clothes and makeup, and said that everyone else who saw her called her “ma’am” and opened doors for her.  This guy saw a man’s name on her ticket and chose to make a big deal of it.  That’s not cool. And from this we can conclude that if Amtrak really wants their customers to Ride With Pride, we need to know that that kind of treatment won’t be tolerated.  Contact information for a trans-friendly ombudsperson would be a big step. Articles General News Media When Amtrak misgendered Chelsea Manning 