Happy pride weekend, and BRAWL
Sun, 19 Jul 2015 15:37:38 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2015/07/19/happy-pride-weekend-and-brawl/
Uncategorized androgyny gender identity genderqueer lgbt lgbtq lgbtqia non-binary pride pride parade queer trans transgender 
I know I’m behind on the celebratory Pride post – this really is when my city celebrates Pride.  Why it’s not in June, I’m not sure.  Yesterday was the parade and festival, and today is a picnic.  There were some other events throughout last week too, but I wasn’t really in the loop.  Usually we just march in the parade, whether it’s with an actual group, or just kind of infiltrating, doing our own thing.our vaguely sci-fi influenced outfitsIt’s all very serious.We dressed up in fun outfits, like every year.  I gotta say though, that personally, it’s losing its excitement.  It used to be such a thrill.  I don’t know if it’s because I’m older, or because I’ve done it so many times, but it’s just sort of meh, now.  Nothing lately has felt exciting – maybe that’s part of rebounding from all I went through lately.  I hope the world takes on a shimmer, once in a while, again soon…This year, my partner’s employer (a food co-op) was in the parade, so we marched with them.  They had 2 banners, some people dressed up in produce costumes, and a couple of shopping carts holding buckets of soapy solution to make giant bubbles with.  And also a dog, riding in a cart.  I handed out coupons for $5 off $25 purchase – we got rid of 600 coupons!After the parade, we went and ate burritos and then came home to relax.  We watched a documentary on Tig Notaro.Then we went out to a bar for an event called BRAWL (Broads Regional Arm Wrestling League).  They sporadically hold events at different bars, and it’s always a fund raiser for some organization.  This time it was the gay alliance.  Lady arm wrestlers take on a whole persona and have an entourage go out into the crowd and drum up bets for who will win.  There are two winners – the strongest arm, and the one who raises the most $$.  They had names like Malice in Wonderland and Beth Amphetamine.  It was pretty entertaining.  There was an announcer, referee, and DJ to enhance the hype.I guess it was cool to see some people while we were marching and to go out to an event.  I haven’t been doing much of that lately.  I asked my partner about it, and she said I haven’t seemed very engaged lately.  I agree with that.  When will that return?  She says I should just keep putting myself out there and going through the motions.  I agree with that too. 
Page 12 – janitorqueer