“Passing” at work
Fri, 12 Jun 2015 04:01:53 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2015/06/12/passing-at-work/
Passing androgyny gender gender identity genderqueer janitors kids lgbtq non-binary passing queer school trans transgender work 
It’s been a while since I’ve written anything about work.  During my depression, I was in and out of work a few times, totaling 8 weeks of sick leave.  It’s been difficult to get back into the swing of things.  Some changes were made, and I wasn’t in the best place to acclimate to new routines.  It’s starting to get a little better, just in time to get disrupted again for summer cleaning (switching from an afternoon/night shift to a day shift starting the week after next.)But this post isn’t really about that work stuff.  It’s about something that brightened my day yesterday.  A parent of a student saw me as male, and it made my day.  I know the term “passing” is problematic because it connotes a deception is taking place and it sets up a discrepancy amongst those who “pass” and those who don’t – it shouldn’t be about that!  We are who we are.  Despite all this, I really like the word and feel like it describes my experience.Here’s a few past posts where I talk about it: Recent instances of passing Passing as a teenager yet again Thirty-one year old kid working as a school janitor Rumors flying around the kindergarten classroomI feel like people generally see me as female.  I gotta say I’m even (very pleasantly) surprised when I’m seen as male; I feel I am not masculine enough.  When I am seen as male, “passing” accurately describes the experience, because I am not male (I am definitely not female either).Yesterday, a dad and his son approached me while I was cleaning.  The son forgot his spelling homework and had to get access to his classroom.  I said sure and which room and we went there.  I unlocked the door, turned on the lights, and stood waiting, because that’s what we’re supposed to do.  The kid came back from his desk with a book but no spelling homework.  The dad asked,“Where’s your homework?”The kid sputtered, “I guess when we were clearing out our desks I must have put it in my bag?  But I do need this book.”“So we just bothered this gentleman for no reason?”I said, “That’s totally fine.  At least you got your book!”The dad continued, “Tell him you’re sorry.”“Sorry.”“Not a problem.  You guys have a good night.”I was conversing with these people and spending more than a second in their presence.  And the dad saw me as male!!!  And whether the kid knows I’m biologically female (I’m not out at work… yet!) he didn’t say anything one way or the other.  It felt really validating.  I held onto that feeling as long as I could.In other news, the NY Times is giving trans-people an opportunity to tell their story in 400 words or less.  It’s totally awesome!  Here’s the link to what’s out there already, and a chance to share your own story:  Tell your story.  I already told my story! 
Page 13 – janitorqueer