How do I know if a name is right for me?
Wed, 29 Apr 2015 21:13:38 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2015/04/29/how-do-i-know-if-a-name-is-right-for-me/
coming out name change androgynous gender gender identity genderqueer lgbtq names non-binary preferred names queer trans transgender 
The number one piece of advice I would give someone who isn’t 100% yet about a potential new name:  try it out in a controlled setting where you are surrounded by strangers (if possible).  If it’s a temporary setting, even better.I’m the type of person who isn’t going to go with something till I’m really really sure.  Other people might be fine with trying a name amongst friends and then switching it at a later date, or trying out a few names with a few people all at the same time.  These people can disregard my advice!Sometimes finding a new name is more of an ordeal.  It has been for me at least – I’ve been considering new names for many many years.  What could be a fun and creative process might end up feeling like a never-ending search for a perfect fit.  About a year ago, I wrote a post on finding a new name.  I thought I had it!  I was pretty excited about it!It is here:  Ruling With Elf WisdomI started using my new name at my new doctor’s office, and then I made no further progress after that.  Something was off, but I assumed it was just that it would take some getting used to.  Now, a year later, I can easily say it just wasn’t the right name for me.  (And/or I just wasn’t ready.)  It looked good on paper.  It sounded good in my head.  However, it sounded strange, for me, in the real world.  When a nurse called me back from the waiting room, it just did not feel right.  Lots of other blog writers have addressed this too:A few years ago, Micah wrote about how he had an online presence as “Maddox,” which he thought fit well until he started trying out the name at a conference.  It is here:  MisnomerJamie Ray wrote about their process of over-thinking a name until one just came to them, through a Starbucks barista hearing their legal name wrong.  It is here:  The Name GameI started thinking about names again a couple of months ago, once I really started to accept that the name I thought I might go with, “Avery” was not a good fit.  I wanted an androgynous name, and I felt like I’d heard them all (and I might have, with all the time I spent searching names online).  It wasn’t until I had a conversation (not the first) with my partner (at a Starbucks, coincidentally), that a name I had glossed over many times before suddenly popped out more.  “Kameron.”  I like it because it’s more of a masculine name than a feminine name.  I like it because it’s close to my legal name.  I like it because Cameron is the name of the first trans-guy I met in real life (the first trans-guy I knew to be trans anyway).I just feel more sure this time.  It’s not really explainable – it’s just a feeling.  So far I’ve told a handful of friends, my mom, my partner’s mom, and the partial hospitalization program I am currently attending.The PHP is a perfect place to try this out.  No one knows me there, and I probably won’t be seeing any of them again after 5-10 days.  Plus there are lots of opportunities for people to address me, and everyone else, by name.  I started to get called “Kameron” a lot, and it’s been treated like it’s just my name.  They don’t know I’m not using it yet; it doesn’t matter!  When someone says “Kameron,” it fits.I don’t yet have a timeline for legally changing my name, but I know that I will.  I know the change-over will be hard and it will take a while for everyone to get on board and remember.  That’s OK – a lot of good things take a while.  Even settling on a name to begin with can take a while.  Try not to get discouraged – your name is out there! 
Page 13 – janitorqueer