A more complete picture of where I’m at
Wed, 11 Feb 2015 21:29:53 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2015/02/11/a-more-complete-picture-of-where-im-at/
Testosterone emotions gender identity genderqueer hormone replacement therapy lgbtq medication mental health non-binary queer testosterone therapy trans transgender work 
Last week, I wrote about some highy unpleasant sensations I was experiencing, that I’d deduced were from testosterone for me right now.  Then I thought some more about it.  I thought about how testosterone has never been anything but a good thing for me.  I also got some insightful comments and talked things through with my partner and my therapist.  The testosterone bit may be playing a part, but most likely it’s this new medication I’m on, being all wonky with my hormones.Another big factor it took me a moment to think through is:  my menstrual cycle.  Although I’ve been on T for close to 2 years, the dose is low enough that I still get my period.  Do I like that?  No.  But I haven’t been wanting to increase the T enough so that it will cease.  Maybe one day I will get a hysto.  That’s way down the line though.  For now, my menstrual cycle is mild enough that I can deal with it.  Until the addition of this atypical antipsychotic (Geodon), that is.  While premenstrual, I was experiencing hot flashes and cold sweats.  I stunk all around (feet, underarms, breath).  I could not be around too much light or too much noise or too many people.  (My partner and I call it TMS for Too Much Stimulation.)  I was making it through the work day but had no energy for anything else.  Or, conversely, I had too much pent up energy I needed to expend by dancing wildly or pacing.Another piece of the puzzle, that my therapist filled in, was the idea that I’m still coming down from a manic jag.  It was acute and short-lived, but the brain takes time to rebound from something so extreme.  She told me that, essentially, agitation and “feelings of flying/fun” are two sides of the same coin, neurologically speaking.  That made a ton of sense.  I was still having fun when I was kicking back at home, on a leave from work.  As soon as I returned to work, the stress shot through the roof.  Makes sense.Now that I have the pieces to make sense of all that, and now that my menstrual flow is dwindling, I’m finally feeling like myself again.  Even better, actually, I’m feeling like I did when I first got on testosterone.  All warm & fuzzy, all cozy and peaceful and grounded in my body.  I know my brain <–> body connection still has some sorting out to do, and I know I’m going to get off this drug as soon as it is safe to / I feel like it.  Right now though, I am so glad I’m out of the woods on this one.(It makes sense too, because 12 years ago, I was on Risperdal, a different atypical antipsychotic.  I was having really wonky hormonal side effects on that too.  Some things don’t change much.) 
Page 15 – janitorqueer