“Just Call Me Kade”
Tue, 13 Jan 2015 22:04:21 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2015/01/13/just-call-me-kade/
coming out film ftm gender identity genderqueer hormone replacement therapy lgbtqia queer short film testosterone trans transgender 
A couple of weeks ago, I came across a long-lost video about an FTM teenager, made between 1999 and 2002.  It was one of those things where someone’s blog had a link to a YouTube video, and then the sidebar had other videos I might enjoy, and I was immediately taken back in time.I saw this short film in 2002, with my mom, as part of a program at the local LGBT film festival.  It immediately stood out for me, and has withstood the test of time.  While re-watching it, I could just feel those memories resurface.  Sitting there, as a 21 year old, thinking that this person’s story also applies to me.  And can my mom tell?  Am I magically sending her vibes to let her know, as we sit and watch this film together, in a theater full of people?  I was also thinking, why did I not go that route of getting to be a 16 year old on hormones?  I could be in a totally different place right now (“right now” meaning me in 2002) if I’d done that!!!I don’t feel that anymore.  I’m glad to be where I’m at.  If I had transitioned at 16, I think I’d have been happier than I actually was at that age, but I’d have some real regrets later in life. (Meaning my life right now.  Lots of time travel in this post!)This film is seriously outdated in some ways, and also relevant and timeless in other ways.  My favorite line is, when the father says, “I thought that we were just going to have a lesbian on our hands.”  I laughedIt portrays different reactions from family members pretty well – the dad uses his correct name and pronouns and speaks lovingly of his son.  The mom misgenders him consistently, yet you can tell the love is there.  The grandma cannot get past the emotional hurt of how this feels to her.  It’s kinda heartbreaking to watch, but also I just want to shake her.  The sister is detached mostly, away at college, but has no problem with her brother’s life path.Give it a watch if you’ve got the time!  
Page 15 – janitorqueer