1.75 years on T without noticeable masculinizing changes
Mon, 22 Dec 2014 21:51:34 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2014/12/22/1-75-years-on-t-without-noticeable-masculinizing-changes/
Testosterone androgyny doctors gender gender identity genderqueer hormone replacement therapy lgbt lgbtqia non-binary queer testosterone trans transgender 
A couple of days ago, I hit my big 1.75 year milestone!  (Haha.)  I’ve been doing quarterly updates about changes on testosterone, and I’ll probably just continue at that pace.Changes:  There are none to report.  Nothing new at least.  I had increased my dose from 1 pump of 1% (Androgel) to 2 pumps of 1%, from roughly August through November.  I did this because my blood work had come back with low levels.  Er, by “low levels,” I mean back into a normal female range (I believe I was at 64 ng/dl).  So after increasing and having more bloodwork done, I saw my doctor in November, and she told me my levels were at 210 ng/dl.  I was surprised by this – not because it’s bad; just because it did not feel like I was up in that range at all.  (A female range is roughly 14-75; a male range is between 300 and 800).  I had been aiming for roughly 100 ng/dl; to find out I’d more than tripled my level felt hard to believe.I hadn’t been experiencing a drop in my voice.  Or more hair on my body.  Or an increase in sex drive or appetite.  To clarify, I have experienced some changes over time – just nothing new in a long time.  Here are some past posts about it, if you’re interested:One and a half years One and a quarter years One whole year Eight months on TMy doctor wanted me to decrease the dosage a little bit.  I strongly feel that I am going to do what I want to do and not what my doctor wants, in this regard.  BUT, I’m super curious to see what the lab work will come back as, with a slight decrease.  Because so far, the amount I’m taking has not appeared to correspond directly with the amount in my blood stream.  Not in a sensical way, at least.  So, for now, I’m using 1 pump of 1.62%, daily.Like I said, there’s nothing new to report.  So I’m going to just riff off of one thing I’ve really been enjoying.  Feeling warm!!!  It’s not so great in the summer, but right now I’m reveling in it big time.  I’m typing right now wearing jeans and a t-shirt.  This would not have been possible in winter months before taking testosterone!  (Because we keep our house pretty chilly, to try to save $$$.)  I can step out of the shower and not feel like I am shaking and shriveling until the point I have all my long johns and sweatshirts on.  I can just kind of step out of the shower and take my time getting dressed.  I can walk around with damp hair, and it’s not intolerable.  My partner reports that sometimes it is too hot when we’re sleeping and I’m spooning her, in the dead of winter, even up in our uninsulated attic (which is where we sleep).  Never heard that complaint before taking testosterone.I love feeling warm when it is cold!!!And finally, a couple of pictures of my face, to illustrate that it is possible to take testosterone for this long and still look pretty much the same (if that’s what you’re trying to going for – I am…)1.75 years on testosterone       1.5 years on testosterone       one year on testosterone  
Page 15 – janitorqueer