Getting to know each other #2
Tue, 09 Sep 2014 16:10:09 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2014/09/09/getting-to-know-each-other-2/
Writing award beverages blogging blogs chain mail vegetarian writing 
A couple of chain-style blogging awards are currently circulating, and I’m gonna go ahead and take part!  Thank you to Something Queer To Read, Tangled Web, and Because I’m Fabulous for including me!  These community driven awards are super important because they help us connect to more blogs we might not yet know about, and they allow blog writers to step outside of their usual modes and share a little bit more about themselves.So, adapted “rules” for the Lovely / Very Inspiring Blog award:– Link to and thank the blog writer(s) who included you.– Write a few facts about yourself.  Maybe 4, maybe 7, maybe 10…– Move things forward by including a few blog writers you really enjoy.  Anywhere from 5 to 15.– Make sure you let these blog writers know!This time around, I’m going to point to (in no real order): A Feminist Challenging Transphobia butchcountry67 The Brighter Side of the Moon Valprehension Today I Am A Man Captain Glitter Toes Create Parity Genderweird Transcending ChayaAnd finally, a couple of things you might not have known about me:– I live 5 miles away from my parents.  I live 5,000 miles away from my brother.– I love beverages of all different kinds:  especially coffee, tea, beer, fancy sodas, kombucha.  I like trying new types!  (I really should remember to drink more water.)– When I was 17, I spent 3 weeks in a psychiatric hospital.  I know I’ve mentioned it before, and although I don’t highlight it often in my writing, this episode greatly shaped where I’m coming from and how I write about my experiences.– I’ve been a vegetarian for about 12 years.  There was a brief foray into eating fish somewhere at the midway point.  That didn’t last long.  It felt weird.  From time to time, I think about re-introducing fish into my diet, but I just can’t seem to do it.Until next time (Getting to know each other #3)… 
Page 17 – janitorqueer