Good doctor news
Fri, 22 Aug 2014 00:56:26 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2014/08/21/good-doctor-news/
Testosterone Uncategorized androgyny doctors gender identity genderqueer hormone replacement therapy lgbtq lgbtqia medical treatment non-binary queer testosterone trans transgender 
Three months ago, I finally found a good doctor, but I was unsure if I’d be able to keep her.  I liked her style immediately – ability to communicate, upbeat and straightforward manner, etc.  And I liked her entire office’s professionalism.  However, she had no trans-related experience, and after I told her my reasons for being there, she seemed hesitant to keep me on as a patient.  She said she would look into finding a specialist I could go to, or at the very least, that she could consult with before proceeding.  In my head, I was thinking, “Good luck with finding people locally!  How do you think I ended up here, with you?!!”  Haha.We had a follow-up appointment yesterday.  Going into it, I wasn’t sure if she was just going to say, “So I’m going to refer you to so-and-so,” and I’d have to start all over again with someone new.  I was nervous; I didn’t want that.  I had convinced myself, to an extent, that that was what was going to happen.If you’re interested in reading through this epic journey to find a new doctor, here’s where I’ve been, in backwards order:From 3 months ago, Convincing doctors that hormones are not that complicated From 5 months ago, The last time I saw my doctor / I like your product From 6 months ago, Continued quest to find a new doctor (a good fit?) And from 7 months ago, just simply, I need to get a new doctorAt the appointment, we first discussed the fact that I went to the eye doctor, and that my vitamin D is low and I need to get supplements, and then finally discussed the reasons I’m there.  She said she did find two area specialists (one is an LGBTQ health center I’d rather not go through, and the other is an endocrinologist who focuses on adult health – good to know there is someone local, and that she uncovered him!)  She continued to tell me she does not think it’s necessary for me to go through either of these channels unless I want to, and that she will continue seeing me for low-dose testosterone therapy.  I was super happy but didn’t really let on.  I did tell her I am glad I can keep coming to see her though.  And that I don’t feel like I need to go to these other people unless something comes up.I wonder what happened within that 3 month time span!  I think she did some research.  Or, in the process of reaching out to specialists, they conveyed to her that it was within her realm and abilities.  And then she did some research.  Something!We discussed the labs I got done in May.  My T levels were at 68 ng/dl.  This surprised me quite a bit – previously, I was at 102 ng/dl.  I had somehow, without changing a thing, dipped back into a normal female range.  How does that work?I know I should go by how I’m feeling, and not by numbers.  BUT – is it just a coincidence that I increased my testosterone dosage 2 months ago, just kinda because?  Because I felt like it?  Hmmm.  I’m super curious to know what my levels are now, accounting for the slight increase…  I’ll find out in 3 more months… (More labs.)Until then, I just wanna revel in the fact that I finally have a primary care physician I would feel comfortable going to for any issue that comes up with my body, trans-related or not.  This is a first!  
Page 17 – janitorqueer