1.25 years on T without noticeable masculinizing changes
Wed, 18 Jun 2014 10:09:39 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2014/06/18/1-25-years-on-t-without-noticeable-masculinizing-changes/
Testosterone Uncategorized androgyny gender identity genderqueer hormone replacement therapy lgbt lgbtq mental health non-binary queer testosterone trans transgender transition 
I’ve been previously writing this ongoing series as “__ months/years on T without physical changes,” but I decided to change the wording from “physical changes” to “noticeable masculinizing changes”  …a little more accurate.  There have been some physical changes.  But, ultimately, they have not added up to a more masculine gender presentation, which has been what I’m aiming for.A quick rundown of the physical changes I have seen: (All of these occurred within the first 2 months and then plateaued out, except the ones that have an asterisk – they started to become noticeable around the one year mark.)All these changes are so slight.  I don’t think I look any different.  Also, my voice sounds the same to me.  I would say my range has shifted oh-so subtly (like when trying to sing or make high pitched or low pitched noises, which I like to do a lot), but my speaking voice is the same.Here are a couple of pictures:1.25 years on testosterone one year on testosteronebefore testosterone         Also, please note my new summer fashion, in the first photo.  I cut the sleeves off of a couple of western-style shirts, to wear over t-shirts or tank tops.  The placement of the pockets & snaps helps hide what’s going on with the fact that I have a chest.  In the winter, I just layer, and it’s awesome.  In the summer, it is hot!  Right?!  If I can get away without wearing a binder, I will.  (And I am grateful every single day for that.)  This layered look just might do the trick.  I do imagine that I will get top surgery one day.  I always start thinking about it much more in the summer.  What an incredible feeling it would be to just wear a tank top and be done with it!I have not missed a day yet, applying 1.25 grams of Androgel 1% per day.  The internal effects make it more than worthwhile.  A quick rundown of those:If you wanna look back at where I’ve been, here are some past posts about this topic:And also, a video about it, at the one year mark.   
Page 19 – janitorqueer