Gearing up for the Philadelphia Trans-Health Conference
Mon, 09 Jun 2014 12:50:06 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2014/06/09/gearing-up-for-the-philadelphia-trans-health-conference-2/
Uncategorized conferences gender identity genderqueer healthcare lgbtq memories non-binary Philadeliphia Trans-Health Conference queer social anxiety trans transgender vacation 
In four days, my partner and I will be on vacation!  We’re going to stay with friends in South Philly, hang out, and attend the PTHC, for the 3rd year in a row.  It’ll actually be my 4th time attending – my first time was in 2006.  It took place in early March, instead of June, back then.  It was much smaller scale.  Maybe a dozen or two dozen workshops, and a couple hundred people.  Now there are over 250 workshops and over 3000 attendees, over the course of 3 days!My memories of that year are super vague and fuzzy.  I’m sure I was paralyzed by social anxiety for the majority of my time there.  I was traveling with a (sort of more than) friend, and it was a strange time.  I remember taking the trolley and getting lost.  I remember eating carrots, crouched down low like a bunny, outside of the conference center.  I remember our hosts – friends of mine – offering us some amazing dumpstered food, and feeling jealous it was so easy for them to get so much free food (not that I had put in too much effort into acquiring dumpster scores at the time, where I live.  Some effort, but not much, haha.)I’m most looking forward to attending some workshops on the following topics:  health care (one in particular is called How to Develop a Transgender Healthcare Alliance in Your Community), trans* youth voices, and anything non-binary-related, as long as it’s a little more advanced than defining terms and finding our identities.  In the past, I’ve mainly honed in on workshops about mental health, non-binary identities, and sex.  It feels significant that the information I’m seeking, the topics I’m finding interesting, has started to shift.In the past, it’s been a delicate balance between wanting to get the most out of it, and pushing myself far far beyond what I can actually do (in terms of crowds and being around people).  I end up being a walking zombie for a lot of it.  I’ve tried a bunch of things to help me last longer.  I bring snacks and water, and don’t worry about eating right in the middle of a workshop, if I have to.  I have brought my journal and attempted to find a quiet corner to just write down some thoughts, hoping to come back into the present moment.  I have even wandered around the rest of the conference center, walking up to other floors, where it is dead quiet and (probably) where no one is supposed to be.Last year I found what really really works for me.  I left the conference center all together, for about a half hour, and took a walk around a couple of blocks.  I’m not familiar with the area at all, and was delighted to find myself in Chinatown!  I stopped into a food store and bought a soda and then just kept walking and walking.  It felt incredibly rejuvenating.  When I got back, I was ready to absorb more golden information and people-watch at the best people-watching event I know of!  Haha.Will anyone be at the conference?  I’d love to say “Hey,” in person!  Do you have any other conferences or trans*-related events, coming up, that you’re excited about? 
Page 19 – janitorqueer