Drag King Stories (pt 2)
Wed, 28 May 2014 13:47:52 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2014/05/28/drag-king-stories-pt-2/
Drag King Stories androgyny bob dylan butch drag drag king gender identity genderqueer lgbtq lgbtqia non-binary performance queer trans transgender 
A few weeks ago, a friend asked me if I could portray Bob Dylan, as he were in Subterranean Homesick Blues.  (My initial plan for “Drag King Stories” was to be chronological; obviously I’m not following that because I’m now jumping to the most recent story I have on the topic!)  The friend had been invited by the local Improvement Society to give a power-point presentation at a literary/cultural hub, just up the street from me.  He was going to be one of 11 people, doing flash-presentations to highlight what’s new! His project:  He is the mastermind behind a new radio station that will be hitting the airwaves by October.  It’ll be run by and for the community; all funds will be raised by community efforts (as opposed to commercial, although there might be underwriters and/or sponsorship members).So when he approached me, he said that each group presents 20 slides and a representative talks along with the images, which are on an auto-timer of 20 seconds each, for a total 6minute, 40 second presentation (per group).  And the audience sits and watches each presentation, one after the other.  He told me he’d already gotten permission to stray from the rules and just not use power-point or slides at all.  To instead go totally lo-fi, using poster-board with words sharpied in black.  Just my style!In the past, any opportunity to be in drag and perform outside of a typical drag show format has been a total blast, and so I jumped on the chance.  My friend and I hung out in his attic the Sunday before the event, listening to music, practicing, and drawing out the words with sharpie markers.  He had written out a script, telling the story of the radio station thus far.  I assumed a wide stance and stony expression, just like Mr. Bob Dylan.    We decided in advance that I was going to have an attitude.  I was just going to drop each poster onto the floor and then at the end of our 6:40, I would throw the last poster up into the air and walk off, leaving others to pick them all up.We arrived early, and I was excited to find out we were on first.  Love getting a performance out of the way and then kicking back!  The audience was a bunch of young entrepreneurs / hipsters / yuppies / intellectuals.  Haha.  We got up there, did our thing, I walked off, and then we watched everyone else.  There was an intermission with cucumber sandwiches, meats and cheeses, and tiny fingerling potatoes(?), and beer.  This was, ultimately, a networking event, but I dislike that stuff, so I let my friend do the talking, and my partner and I grabbed food and beer and went to explore the building a little bit.After the event, my partner and I went out to a bar to see a different friend’s new band.  I felt really solid in my button-up shirt, vest, and sideburns.  I should remember to go out “in drag,” just for fun, more often!Also, if you wanna check out what I wrote in Part 1, it is here!  
Page 19 – janitorqueer