11 months on T without physical changes
Wed, 19 Feb 2014 01:23:10 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2014/02/18/11-months-on-t-without-physical-changes/
Testosterone androgyny gender identity genderqueer hormone replacement therapy lgbt lgbtq non-binary testosterone trans transmasculine 
Today!  I am happy to be able to say that I have not seen any new changes.  For reference, here are posts from 5 months and 8 months – There are a lot of specifics in those posts.The reasons I’m writing so sporadically about my changes on low-dose testosterone are because: 1. I don’t have much to report! 2. I plan on this being a long term endeavor, both this blog, and the actual taking of the testosterone.  So, I mean, I can’t foresee the future, but I imagine I’ll be around 4 years from now, 6 years from now, updating about T-changes every once in a while.  I do want to document the long term here.To summarize, I started using 1.62% of Androgel, 1.25g / day.  After 2 months, I was getting concerned with the changes I was seeing (however slight they were), so I asked to be lowered to 1%.  And have not seen any further changes since then.  I have been highly motivated to continue applying the gel every day.  For about 6 days early on, I was alternating days (my doctor’s suggestion) in an attempt to slow progress, and I did not enjoy this skipping of days at all!  Since then I have not missed a day.I have been experiencing some incredible internal changes due to the added testosterone in my body.  Some were expected (and were the reasons for me to seek it out) and some were a complete surprise. 1. Increased sex-drive (expected) 2. Increased sensitivity to pain, and all physical sensations, actually (surprise) 3. Increased connectedness with my body, decreased gender dysphoria (not totally a surprise) 4. Decreased general anxiety, big time (surprise)I don’t have any voice recordings or even very many photos, which is partially due to not being tech savvy (I’m trying to learn little by little here), and partially a tactic I’m employing to help myself not obsess too much.  But I do realize it means I don’t have much “proof.”  *I’m thinking about making a video at my one year mark.  Maybe.  If I can figure out how to do that.I do have these pictures of my face though.  I don’t see myself looking more masculine (yet) but maybe I am getting there, very very slowly…  Will just have to wait to find out…five monthseight monthseleven monthseleven months and one day These last 2 photos are sort of to illustrate how we can look pretty different, just from day to day, from photo to photo.  I could spend hours taking photos of myself and most of them I’d probably look at and say, “that doesn’t even look like me!”  (Luckily I didn’t do that – it’s sort of a rush job.  Also, do I think I look like myself?  Not sure.)*  It’s not a goal of mine to prove anything in particular (such as, that taking T long-term without masculinizing changes is possible).  But if I find that this is possible, I’ll continue to be very very happy!  My main goal is to be out there with a different perspective.  A different set of reasons for having started testosterone, and a different set of reasons for wanting to continue.  And to see what happens along the way.  And to talk with people about it!  (OK, so that was more like a 5 part goal.) 
Page 21 – janitorqueer