Working on “Letters for My Siblings”
Thu, 16 Jan 2014 17:42:04 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2014/01/16/working-on-letters-for-my-siblings/
Writing androgyny anthology gender identity genderqueer non-binary trans writing 
I usually try to post about once a week.  But this week, I got nothin’…  because I’m working on finishing up a submission for a new anthology!  (So I’m posting anyway, about that!)  I’ve been working on a piece of writing.  You could too – there’s still time!  I’ll be updating about how it turns out, in a few weeks.Here are the details:Letters for My Siblings: Call for SubmissionsDeadline: February 1, 2014Word Limit: 2500Publisher: Transgress PressContact: lettersformysiblings@gmail.comThe Lambda Literary Finalist Letters for My Brothers asked transsexual men to pass on to their pre-transition selves any important advice that they had as post-transition men. In Letters for My Siblings, we wish to capture short pieces of a similar spirit from people who are genderqueer, gender non-conforming, bigender, agender, or who simply don’t fit nicely into the boxes of “man” and “woman”.Your submission should be between 500 and 2500 words and address one or more of the prompts below.Not all prompts will apply to all writers. Your submission should be about your own lived experience — please avoid delving too far into the theoretical, or making broad generalizations about any group (even one that you belong to).Send all submissions to lettersformysiblings@gmail.com by February 1, 2014. Authors will be notified of acceptance within six weeks of the submission deadline.• What does it mean to transition as a non-binary identified person? How have you transitioned medically, legally, socially, or otherwise, and why? Has your transition been an important part of your identity and/or experience? How and why?• Where do you fit in the larger trans* community? Have you found friendship and connection among other trans* people, binary or non-binary? Have you encountered discrimination or resistance to your identity within the trans* community?• Have you been able to find or create language to describe your gender/experience? Are you intentional about using (or NOT using) particular words for your gender / experience? Why do you use (or not use) these?• How has your non-binary identity intersected with other parts of your identity, such as your race, class, ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion, physical ability/disability, or age? Are there times when these other parts of your identity come in conflict with your gender? If so, how do you manage these conflicts?• What do you like about being non-binary? What is your biggest frustration? How do you navigate a world set up only for men and women?• Who are your mentors? Who has guided you on your journey / transition? Who do you look up to?• What advice would you give to genderqueer/gender non-conforming/non-binary people who are at the beginning of their journey?As compensation for their contribution, all authors will receive a free copy of the anthology upon its publication. Transgress Press will donate all proceeds to organizations benefiting trans communities (www.transgresspress.com/our-donations).We look forward to hearing from you!  
Page 22 – janitorqueer