Happy Randomtimes, today
Tue, 17 Dec 2013 18:53:55 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2013/12/17/happy-randomtimes-today/
Uncategorized anniversary co-habitating fake dates gay marriage homeownership homeowning housemates lgbtq randomtimes relationship same-sex marriage 
Today is the day C and I have been together for 7 years.  This anniversary, which we refer to as “Randomtimes,” trumps the recent new date on which we got married, for sure.How we met (this would be a medium length version):  We met briefly twice, through a mutual (more than) friend, in the winter of 2005/2006.  I was buying a house the following summer, and she was looking for a place to live that wasn’t her parents’ house.  I phone-interviewed her; she had previously lived in a co-op with a bunch of people.  She moved in that August, into the tiniest bedroom ever.  She painted it bright blue with mint green trim and had a bunk bed.  Two other people also lived there.  It was cool times; it felt important to me, this household identity.  She and I were both in relationships that imploded, exploded, and / or fizzled out within a few months.  We started to hang out a little bit, tentatively.  She was working downtown, and I invited her on a few “dates” on her lunch breaks.  These weren’t indicators to her that I was interested.  She thought maybe they were fake dates, whatever those are.  : )Finally one night in December, I wrote her an email from across the upstairs hallway, being a hell of a lot more direct.  I had been out late dancing, and felt pretty good about myself right then; she was asleep.  I told her I like like her and would she want to talk about it in person with me?  It was a very long email – but that was the gist, haha.  She did want to talk; a couple of days later, we went for a walk and talked.  And talked and talked (and then made out!), and talked some more because, dang, it was kinda complicated – we lived together, yet didn’t know each other super well yet.  But we decided to risk it and see how it felt.It felt pretty great, but was also anxiety provoking, at least for me, at first!  But ultimately, awesome.  And since then, we’ve always lived with 2 other people, who have come and gone.  (Although C moved out of the tiny blue room with bunk bed, and into the biggest room, which has the access to the attic, which is my room / where we sleep.)  Up until a couple of weeks ago… the gentleman inhabiting the tiny blue room with bunk bed moved out, and our other housemate is potentially moving out within a month as well.  (We asked them to look for a new place to move within the next 6 months.)This is the first time we’re going to be living on our own, ever.  What’ll that be like?!! 
Page 22 – janitorqueer