{"title": "Branching out", "date": "Sat, 26 Nov 2016 20:18:00 +0000", "dateobj": "2016-11-26", "link": "https://janitorqueer.com/2016/11/26/branching-out/", "tags": ["Uncategorized", "Writing", "blogs", "election", "gender identity", "genderqueer", "hate crime", "lgbtq", "non-binary", "politics", "queer", "trans", "transgender", "writing"], "text": "\u00a0I started writing occasionally for a website called Transgender Universe. \u00a0Here\u2019s the first article that I\u2019ve posted! \u00a0It\u2019s about pride flags being\u00a0burned in my neighborhood, following the election, and then an impromptu rally, as a response to this hate crime.(This first appeared on Transgender Universe, here: \u00a0From Burning Pride Flags to a Neighborhood Rally)The morning after the election, I woke up to a text from a friend who said, \u201cHi! We\u2019d like to get a rainbow flag to hang at the house in solidarity after what happened yesterday. Do you know where we could purchase one?\u201d When he had said, \u201cwhat happened yesterday,\u201d I figured he meant Trump, but once I got on facebook, I saw that two pride flags had been burned in my neighborhood the evening before. Talk about getting hit close to home! It is being investigated as both arson and a hate crime, but so far there are no suspects.So I looked up information for the gay pride store that had been a mainstay in our city, first opening in 1989 as a leather and fetish supplier, and later changing ownership a couple of times and morphing into a place that had something for everyone in the LGBTQ+ community. I was shocked and saddened to learn that it had closed in August with the death of the current owner. So instead I recommended a couple of novelty stores to my friend, hoping he\u2019d be able to track one down.\u201cAS THE EVENTS UNFOLDED, IT BECAME APPARENT THAT THERE WAS NOWHERE, LOCALLY, TO GET A PRIDE FLAG BECAUSE EVERY PLACE HAD SOLD OUT!\u201dAs the events had unfolded, it became apparent that there was nowhere, locally, to get a pride flag because every place had sold out! A fellow neighbor had ordered 120 more flags, and she was formulating a plan to get these out to people and acquire more, flooding the area with rainbows.On Friday evening, another friend in the neighborhood had texted me to see whether my spouse and I were going to the rally in the morning (I feel fortunate that I have so many friends who are in the loop, because there are times when I am totally living under a rock!). I said, \u201cYes,\u201d as if I knew all about it (ha ha), and we made a plan to go together.And so, my spouse and friends (a queer couple with a 10 year-old son) and I walked over to a nearby park Saturday morning, carrying signs and wearing fun outfits. As we approached, I felt a wave of emotion, moved by the size of the gathering, the amount of rainbows flying in the air, and the openness of everyone there.Mary Moore, the organizer and the neighbor that ordered the flags, stood up on a table to announce the intentions of this rally: to hand out more flags for community members to show solidarity, and to show LGBTQ+ members in this neighborhood how much support is out there. Mission accomplished, by leaps and bounds! There were so many allies and families, along with people who identify as LGBTQ+. I walked around the outskirts of the crowd, taking photos and scoping out all that was happening. There was a station for people to make rainbows out of ribbons, as well as a spot to make construction-paper rainbows. Someone was doing face painting, and there was also a place to sign up to order a flag, because the 120 that Mary had ordered for the rally had sold out in 9 minutes!The director of the local gay alliance also stopped by, got up on the table, and delivered a similar message of hope and love. I started to feel more comfortable, and moving into the crowd and approaching people with signs, asking whether I could take their photograph. I saw a couple of acquaintances, and where I would normally be too shy to strike up a conversation, in this environment, I went right up to them to say hey and chat for a while. My spouse and friends also connected with neighbors we know, as well as meeting a few new people.I posted a photo album of the event on Facebook and watched my social network do its work, spider-webbing outwards from friends I had tagged, to friends of friends and beyond. I also messaged Mary, the organizer, to thank her and to ask her a couple of questions.\u201c\u2026I LEARNED THAT SHE HAS BEEN AN ALLY AND SUPPORTER OF LGBTQ+ RIGHTS FOR A LONG TIME.\u201dWe talked on the phone for a bit this morning, and I learned that she has been an ally and supporter of LGBTQ+ rights for a long time, even doing advocacy work in Washington DC. She said that for the past 8 years though, she could ease up because there was someone in the White House\u00a0who was pushing for the same things; she could focus on her career, working as a lawyer in private practice, and on her family.She first heard about the 2 flag burning incidents from a friend, while picking her kids up from daycare. Her husband had heard about it through the website, nextdoor.com, which acts as a community bulletin board and a way to connect with others nearby. I just joined, myself, to see what it\u2019s all about (and to try not living under a rock quite so much). Sure enough, 5 days ago, there was a post from one of the victims of the hate crime, stating, \u201cI hang a rainbow flag on my front porch and someone burned it down. Thankfully my house didn\u2019t catch fire. The [police are] currently investigating; please keep an eye out for suspicious behavior in the area.\u201dAnd then, as a response, Mary Moore created the event, \u201cLet\u2019s Gather to Support Our Community.\u201d She wrote:In response to the burning of two rainbow flags in [our] area, let\u2019s stand together and show that our community is tolerant and welcoming, regardless of who you love, where you worship, where you were born, your political affiliation, the color of your skin, or how much money you have. Many people in [our] neighborhood have been buying rainbow flags to put out in solidarity and to give to friends. \u2026 Would people be interested in organizing a central meeting place this weekend or next to give out flags and just to stand with our community in solidarity? \u2026 Please comment below if you would be interested in a gathering like this, if you have or can buy flags to distribute, and/or if you can assist with finding a location for this gathering. If there is interest, then we can set up a formal event on here.I know that this is just one of many issues and injustices within our communities and that we are all so very busy, but we have to start somewhere and do what we can with what we\u2019ve got every day. Let\u2019s not be bullied or let our neighbors be bullied.It all came together from there. I want to personally thank Mary Moore for showing my friends, my spouse, me, and everyone else who could be there for how much we are supported by our neighbors!Regarding our rainbow flag status: We don\u2019t have one, but when we moved into our house ten years ago, we dubbed it the \u201cRainbow Ranch\u201d (it\u2019s really a Colonial), and I spray painted a rainbow on our garage door. I sure as hell hope that never gets burned down \u2013 we just put a new roof on it a couple years ago!\u00a0", "feedtitle": "Page 5 \u2013 janitorqueer"}