{"title": "this will not define me", "date": "Tue, 06 Sep 2016 13:42:35 +0000", "link": "https://janitorqueer.com/2016/09/06/this-will-not-define-me/", "tags": ["coming out", "Writing", "femme", "gender identity", "genderqueer", "lgbtq", "non-binary", "queer", "transgender", "writing", "zines"], "text": "Originally published in the zine, Not Trans Enough.\u00a0 Written by geoff; reprinted with permission.if you were to look at me or hear me speak, you\u2019d probably think that i am a cis dude. i could list off all the reasons why that isn\u2019t so. i could just say that i am genderqueer. i could make it known that i am non-binary. or i could just share all that i know about these aspects of myself. i definitely do not look, act, or sound genderqueer or non-binary and i am especially not thought of as trans. well at least i feel that i do not look like or live up to this cultural imagination of what it means to be trans, genderqueer or non-binary.i never \u201ccame out of the closet.\u201d i never had individual conversations with friends or family members. i didn\u2019t even have a facebook status update sharing this new and important part of my life. i never came out. i never really changed my outward appearance to become genderqueer although i wish i didn\u2019t have facial hair. instead i started to live my life more openly, honestly and more as my true self. my process of becoming genderqueer was an inside job.genderqueerness appealed to me because it meant that i no longer had to live like a man. it meant that i no longer had to fall short of the ideal of being a man. it meant that i could start to reject the masculinity that is toxic and violent. it meant that i could be this tiny five foot one and a half tall person trying to live a just life in an unjust world. one thing it didn\u2019t mean was that my male privilege just disappeared once i started to identify as genderqueer.yes, i still benefit from male privilege even though i identify as genderqueer. this male privilege is complicated and contextual. it\u2019s something i never really thought about or ever needed to consider. i feel genderqueer on the inside but i know that most people read me as a dude. being a genderqueer tomboy femme feels right. although my gender identity challenges gender expectations, i still live in this world that genders people as men or women. as de from my interactions with people that are close to me, i get gendered as a man. even though i identify as femme, i do not experience constnt sexual harassment, gendered or sexual violence.in my early 20s and before i ever identified as queer in any way, i used to wear women\u2019s pants by goth brands like lip service and tripp. the pants were skinny enough to fit my slim petite figure but were really tight around the crotch area. i also used to wear cyber goth platform sneakers. i had a pair of \u201cswear alternative\u201d shoes that had a 4 inch platform. i only wore them out once. i stopped it all. i couldn\u2019t deal with the looks and i didn\u2019t feel comfortable or confident in what i was wearing so i stopped. i was scared. i stopped expressing this femme aspect of myself to feel safe. i traded aesthetics for security.\u201cnot trans enough\u201d deeply resonates with me. this statement expresses my sentiments of feeling out of place within the \u201ctrans community.\u201d it conveys the discomfort that i feel when i say that i am genderqueer, that i use they/them pronouns when i am surrounded by people that have an authentic trans story to tell. the \u201creal\u201d trans story that\u2019s about experiencing struggles, dysphoria and medical transition. i do not wish to put down any of these struggles or experiences rather i hope to add my experience to diversify the trans narratives. i share my experience to validate it. i share my story to affirm other peoples\u2019 sentiments if they too feel \u201cnot trans enough.\u201d i think that all trans people are amazing. i dream of a future where trans people don\u2019t constantly live with discomfort, where trans women and transfeminine people do not face disproportionate rates of violence against them, where trans people do not just struggle to survive but thrive and where trans people are honoured for the beautiful people that they are.geoff is a mixed race gender queer of filipinx descent living as a settler on colonized land known as toronto, turtle island, traditionally land of the haudenosaunee, mississaugas of the new credit, huronwendat and other indigenous peoples. they identify as a sober addict in recovery. they wish to politicize their experiences with substance use and sobriety while unraveling the limited representation of the addicted body. more of their work can be found at https://livingnotexisting.org/\u00a0", "feedtitle": "Page 6 \u2013 janitorqueer"}