2 weeks post top surgery
Wed, 15 Jun 2016 14:05:17 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2016/06/15/2-weeks-post-top-surgery/
top surgery emotions gender gender identity genderqueer lgbtq non-binary queer surgery therapy trans transgender vanity 
Content Note:  vanity.When I first saw my chest, looking down while everything was being unwrapped, I was pretty happy.  Everything looked good, except for the fact that the left side was larger than the right.  I was assured it was due to swelling, and everything would even out.Now that another week has passed though, I’m not feeling it.  I am more and more skeptical that there is much, if any, swelling going on.  My spouse agrees.  Regardless, I’ve been taking arnica and bromelain… using ice packs a little bit.Right now, there is not enough symmetry, in multiple regards.  The areolas are different shapes, and they are too large (not “nickle sized,” like we discussed).  The nipples are also too large, but it’s kinda hard to tell what’s going on there (they’re currently being smooshed flat, and will continue to be for another 2 weeks.)  The biggest thing, though, is, I have different sizes going on, which contributes to the areolas/nipples being not in the same place, on each side.  I don’t like that!All these differences are fairly subtle, but definitely noticeable.  I know it’s way too early to be coming to conclusions about how things look, but, so far, not so good.I’ve been in a pretty negative space.  I’ve felt so negative at times, in fact, that it was hard to feel motivated to do all the showering and “nipple care” stuff.  This has gotten better over time.  Everything could change a lot, as I heal; I do recognize that.  It’s not all bad.  Every time I have the sterile pads and binder off for a little while (to let things air out), and I put on a t-shirt (carefully!), I think, “This could work!”  Excitement is there, somewhere.  Sometimes I push down the good stuff, and remain guarded and reserved.There is something here though:  When picking a surgeon, I wasn’t going off of a whole lot.  I mean, I pored through what was available on transbucket, for sure, and searched resources, youtube, and the like.  But I didn’t really entertain all the possibilities very much, in my head.  I had a gut feeling about one route, and kind of just stuck with that.This isn’t the first time I’ve made huge, life-changing decisions in this manner.  But I kind of hope it might be the last time.  (I know it won’t be, haha.)  There are better ways to go about narrowing down all the options!There is one resource that I just learned about a couple of days ago, because a fellow blogger pointed the way.  Gabriel wrote a post called Getting Started With Top Surgery.  He mentioned “top surgery Facebook groups where people share their results and stories with their surgeon as well as the price quotes they’ve paid.”  Oh yeah!  Facebook.  That had not even crossed my mind, unfortunately.  So I just joined an FTM top surgery group, and wow, this is where all the good stuff is.  Wish I had known about it 6 months ago.Edit:  My spouse suggested I stop looking at the FTM top surgery page for a while.  That sounds like a good idea – I was starting to get obsessive about it.  She said wordpress is good.  Stop going on facebook.  Haha.  I agree.I feel torn about whether I will post pictures or not, and if so, where.  Before surgery, I was sure I would not post pictures on this blog, but I would post them on transbucket, when I feel ready.  (They can be accessed if you create an account on transbucket).  This still sounds like what I’m going to want to do.  I do not plan on ever being shirtless in public.  So, in regards to aesthetics, the most important thing is how everything looks while wearing a t-shirt.  Other than people looking up pics as a resource, the only people who are going to see my chest are my spouse and me (and medical professionals, when necessary).  So is it important what it looks like?  Ultimately, yes.  But for right now, as long as I can wear whatever I want, I will be happy enough…During my most recent therapy appointment, right before surgery, I had said, “I’m worried my chest won’t look as good as it does now.”  As opposed to saying, “I’m worried my chest won’t look as good as I envision.”  That, to me, says a lot.In other news, I had a great time in Philadelphia with my mom, after my follow-up.  We went to a brewery and record store.  We met up with friends at the Philadelphia Trans-Health Conference and went to two workshops.  Wish we could have stayed longer!Also, my spouse and I went to a wedding this past weekend, and it was a lot of fun!  Their ceremony reflected who they are, a lot, and everything was casual and laid back.  After the ceremony, I was asked to sign the marriage certificate, as one of the witnesses.  This was a total surprise!  I felt honored.  I asked the officiant if it had to be my legal name, and she said it didn’t matter.  Awesome! 
Page 8 – janitorqueer