1 day till top surgery
Tue, 31 May 2016 11:46:33 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2016/05/31/1-day-till-top-surgery/
top surgery anxiety gender gender identity genderqueer lgbtq medical treatment non-binary queer trans transgender 
My spouse and I are leaving shortly, to drive down and arrive by mid-afternoon, to then get ready for surgery in the morning.  I hope.  I’m saying, “I hope,” because I came down with a cold 3 days ago, and I still feel stuffed up.  I’ve searched the internet for, “Can I get surgery if I have a cold?” and there really is no consensus.  It’s a good sign that I don’t have a fever, and I don’t have a cough.  But ultimately, it’s up to the surgeon.  It feels like I have a 50/50 shot here.And I haven’t been able to get in touch with their office any earlier because of the holiday weekend (I did email a heads up though), so I’m going to have to call while on the road, once their office is open…  When I call, I am going to act as though everything is proceeding like normal, just want to let them know about this development.  Because I really really really just want this to happen.  Tomorrow.  And I don’t know what I’m going to feel if I’m told, “Don’t bother coming.  …We can schedule you for the last week of June.”  Or something like that.Between this and shingles, it feels like my body is trying to say, “this is not happening.”  I’m angry with my body.  I was so super careful – eating well, sleeping well, I don’t recall being around anyone who was sick…  I wasn’t even feeling stressed or anxious.  And this is super strange for me too – I don’t generally get sick often.  I used to, but not anymore.  I don’t get headaches.  I don’t get queezy.  I don’t throw up easily.  So what’s with the shingles (which have thankfully cleared up in time) and the cold?!?I currently don’t feel stressed about the surgery.  I feel ready.  I feel stressed about the cold, but not about the surgery.So, I guess I’ll know what’s happening within a few hours.  Let’s hope next time I write, it’ll be good news!!! 
Page 8 – janitorqueer