1 week till top surgery
Wed, 25 May 2016 12:41:38 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2016/05/25/1-week-till-top-surgery/
coming out top surgery David Bowie emotions gender gender identity genderqueer lgbtq non-binary queer The Man Who Fell to Earth trans transgender 
One week feels about right – it neither feels like it’s approaching too quickly nor like it cannot come soon enough.  I already have everything that the surgeon’s office needs turned in; my to-do list now consists of things I’m trying to think I want to get done before I won’t be able to do stuff for a while:  cut my hair, cut my spouse’s hair, cut the grass, purchase extra cat litter because I won’t be able to lift that, do laundry, install the air conditioning unit in our bedroom window…  I know my spouse can do a lot of this stuff as it needs to get done, but I guess it feels good to be getting as much out of the way now, while I can.  I do not look forward to not being able to do things.  I’m going to have to accept it.I’m also thinking about what, specifically, I will miss.  I’m going to take some pictures, but, what’s impossible to capture is how that part of my body feels – both the shape and the sensations.  I’m resigned to the fact that I will most likely lose sensitivity in this area, and I wish I could remember it how it is, somehow…Last Saturday night, my spouse and I went with friends to see The Man Who Fell to Earth.  Without giving any spoilers, there was a scene in which David Bowie’s character is undergoing surgery while conscious.  Doctors are cutting into his areola with a scalpel, and he is yelling for help.  This was like whoa.  Unexpected.  Hitting a little too close to home.  Not making sense, story arc wise (the story arc was less of an arc and more of a jagged pattern-less wave anyway).David Bowie film still from The Man Who Fell to Earth. // I do this sometimes, but I don’t have that close-up face mirror. And I don’t tweak my nipples – I cover the whole area with my hands.I don’t really feel anxious or excited, at least not yet.  I’d be into the idea of getting through this without either or those emotions – we’ll see.  It helps to read other accounts of impending surgery thoughts and feelings.  Such as this post:  Last Minute Concerns, from over 5 years ago.  And recountings of the process, such as this post, from yesterday:  It’s Never Too Late.I only have 3 more days of work.  Then I won’t be back till probably August.  That’ll be weird.  I wonder what my days will look like, once I’m recovered enough.  Will I feel like being creative and getting stuff done, or will I end up just hanging out?  We’ll see – I’m not going to make it be anything in particular.Other stuff has been going on too.  My spouse and I visited some extended family on my dad’s side last weekend, most of whom she had not yet met.  I sent an email to as many people as I could in advance just mentioning my name change and that I go by male pronouns.  I received only one reply, and my expectations were pretty low.  Surprisingly though, everyone who said my name used my new name, and there were zero slip ups.  It was awesome.  I think this’ll help my dad get on board!  (He is getting there, slowly…   …   very slowly…) 
Page 8 – janitorqueer