Special Gay Edition
Fri, 01 Apr 2016 13:05:24 +0000
https://janitorqueer.com/2016/04/01/special-gay-edition/
coming out gender identity genderqueer lgbt lgbtq lgbtqia music queer radio radio dj same-sex marriage trans transgender 
I’ve had the ability to hear my voice played back to me a whole lot, lately.  For the past 4 months, I’ve been doing a weekly radio show, and this going to be ongoing for a long time.  At first, I didn’t want to listen to the recordings at all.  Then for a while, I was scrutinizing every little sound:  I keep inhaling too sharply, I keep enunciating strangely, it’s not masculine enough (that’s a big one) etc. …  By now, I’ve started to accept my “radio voice” for what it is, but I’m still thinking of ways to improve at the same time.Last week, my spouse and I worked together to produce a “Special Gay Edition” of my regular show, and we both talked together, which was really fun.  We used the word “gay” instead of “queer” or “LGBTQ+” because of the era:  I normally play music from the late 70s and 80s (punk, post punk, new wave, goth, weird stuff), so we put together a set list from that time period and researched the musicians.  Here’s the result!  (Edited slightly for anonymity.)Here’s the playlist:Culture Club – Miss Me Blind Fred Schneider and the Shake Society – Monster Klaus Nomi – Total Eclipse (live)Joan Jett and the Blackhearts – Cherry Bomb Husker Du – Find Me Wayne County and the Electric Chairs – Thunder Wendy and Lisa – Waterfall Sinead O’Connor – I Want Your (Hands on Me) Bronski Beat – Smalltown Boy Grace Jones – Warm Leatherette Tom Robinson Band – Glad to be GayAnd just a quick note about blogging:  for the first time since I started this blog, I’m finding myself way behind on reading others’ blogs – like about a week behind.  It doesn’t feel like I can catch up at this point, and I’m not sure if this lag is ongoing or just a blip.  Either way, I’m still around and I still want to know what’s going on with everyone!  I’m just finding myself more immersed in music, which is proving to be really time consuming!  Ultimately, it’s enjoyable – I had been going through a very long lull where music didn’t seem important to me anymore.  I’m glad music matters. 
Page 9 – janitorqueer